2004_December 10 
Spike Lee's He Got Game is a beautifully shot and well-executed
exploration of the role that the sport of basketball plays in the
relationship between a father and his estranged son. At the outset,
having not seen very many other Spike Lee movies, I didn't really know
what to expect or what to compare this film to. However, I was
pleasantly surprised at the overall quality of the plot and the
cinematography that composed this film. Furthermore, I really liked the
definitive sense of Spike's style that was quite apparent throughout.<br /><br />Told through flashbacks that reveal the plot throughout the course of
the movie, He Got Game is about Jake Shuttlesworth (Denzel Washington)
and his basketball-star son, Jesus (Ray Allen). Jake is in jail under
mysterious circumstances, yet can get out of jail if he is able to
convince Jesus to choose to play basketball at a specific school,
namely the state governor's alma mater. Released for a week in order to
complete the daunting task, he hounded by probation officers, and does
a lot of things that he couldn't do in jail, such as have a light
dalliance with Milla Jovovich's slightly-unnecessary prostitute
character, Dakota Burns. Denzel, as usual, excellently handles his role
as the intense father, and is utterly believable in both his
emotion-laden and his violent, angry scenes.<br /><br />Ray Allen's portrayal of Jesus is also an interesting and well-played
usage of the strong dichotomy of masculinity in the sport of
basketball. He very clearly shows the purer and more tender side of his
character through his love for his younger sister, whom he lives with
and takes care of. Yet he is torn between that and the glittering,
vice-infested world that his ability at basketball brings him ever
closer to. At times he does even succumb to the cloying ploys of
others, and there is a particularly raunchy scene as evidence of this.
Allen carefully and quietly allows the audience to see the conflicts
between sensitivity and machoism that exist in his life, as a result of
basketball.<br /><br />Probably one of the more interesting ways in which this film is set up
is through the use of comparative shots that allow the similarities of
Jake and Jesus's actions to show. Jesus tries so hard to distance
himself from his father, yet the shots and the camera framing show just
how alike they both really are. I also particularly enjoyed the use of
color and contrasts that appeared throughout. For instance when Jesus
and his errant girlfriend LaLa (Rosario Dawson) are talking at the end
of the film, both their faces vividly reflect a shade of jealous green
from the amusement park lights.<br /><br />Overall this film is a very good spin on the basketball sports movie,
yet with no huge stadiums or big games to win the championship, like
what usually constitutes a basketball movie. Instead, the two main
characters go through much self-analysis and introspective maturing,
something that is quite rare for sports-playing men in film to do. I
liked the strong use of color and the well-framed shots, and especially
enjoyed Denzel Washington's brooding performance. A classic, must-see
movie for anyone interested in cinematography or film.
