2003_October 16 

Director Spike Lee's ode to basketball is one of those frustrating
experiences that appears to be a possible slam dunk, but ultimately ends up
fouling out mainly because of an uneven story and a nearly invisible tone.
Denzel Washington is serving a prison sentence for killing his wife in a
domestic dispute. While away, his son has grown to become high school
basketball stand-out Ray Allen (a real-life NBA player). Governor Ned Beatty
promises to shorten Washington's sentence if he can convince Allen to attend
Beatty's alma mater. He has one week to accomplish his goal. Naturally Allen
is outraged by seeing his father again and creates a shell to keep
Washington out of his life. At first this seems like a good thing, but what
if all of Allen's so-called friends (coaches, relatives, girls, agents and
fans) are the true antagonists here and Washington is the flawed hero? Lee
is never sure what he wants to do here. The movie plays out like a chaotic
basketball game with lots of action and memorable action, but in the end you
do not want either team to win. Washington and Allen's relationship takes up
some airtime, but so do others that leave almost as fast as they appear. The
corruption in collegiate athletics and within sports agencies is also given
an interesting glimpse, but alas those topics are not explored completely.
&quot;He Got Game&quot; looked like it would match the brilliance of William
Friedkin's &quot;Blue Chips&quot; (a flawed, but important movie), but just does not
seem to have the coaching necessary. Washington is impressive and handles
the material as well as he can. Allen is a complete revelation. Anfernee
Hardaway had stolen the show from Nick Nolte in &quot;Blue Chips&quot; and Allen
pretty much does the same thing in this one. Ray Allen seems to have
unlimited potential in front of the camera and his gift could be developed
more fully after his playing career ends. I have said for years that Ray
Allen should be the best player in the NBA, but he has ultimately
disappointed me throughout his professional career. Allen is not the problem
here though. Lee's sporadic direction and a meandering script end up sending
&quot;He Got Game&quot; to the locker room way too soon. 2.5 out of 5
stars.
