2011_July 11 
This movie has placed itself among the bottom ranking comic book movies
that have plagued our society. The movie is better than marvels worst
movie (FF,FF2,GR,DD,etc) but Green Lantern has put WB studios and DC
movies further behind Marvel recent films and next years The Dark
Knight Rises and the new Superman have to tread softly to save the
dying DC brand. Both DC brand films Green Lantern and Jonah Hex fell
way below the audiences and critics liking and put WB studios in a bad
position for establishing future comic book films. The thing that saves
this movie from being the worst comic book movie is Ryan Reynolds. He
grasps the viewer&#x27;s attention when the plot and CGI is failing all
around him. He also has a sort of flare when he is on screen and makes
the character he is representing feel life like. I for one thought that
he would be the down fall of this franchise, but he seems to take
handle of this iconic role. He is not your typical superhero choose
such as Robert Downy Jr. was with Iron-man, but owns that role and
makes Hal Jordan/Green Lantern story interesting. Other than Ryan
Reynolds strong performance there is Mark Strong who is amazing and
nails the role of Sinestro. He does a decent job of giving the audience
another character to enjoy, but he was not explored enough to get a
feel of who he really is and becomes. Some of the other cast members
are passable to watch at times, but roles serve no purpose to the plot
and are there just to advance the movie along. These members include
Blake Lively who gives a wooden performance and brings nothing notable
to the film as the same with Peter Sarsgaard who looks like a new
version of the elephant man. You never really got to know their
character better to really care for their role. Reynolds and Strong
keep the film afloat any time they are on screen, but the movie takes a
downward turn when they are not present. I just wasn&#x27;t blown away by
the whole Green Lantern universe that was set up and never exposed much
throughout the film. There were spare cool Green Lantern tricks here
and there, but nothing captivating. The film lacks togetherness and
falls flat during the course of the film. The Paralax evil creature of
smoke looked very unbelievable and fake at times. He seemed too big of
a villain to be placed in the first movie and look really silly and
took away a lot of interest from the movie. In addition to that the
action never seems to fit in quite right with the fight scenes. The
director seems to just throw them together at times just to look cool,
but never quite accomplished its task. The CGI was poorly done in my
opinion and looked like something that was created back when CGI
technology was first introduced to cinema. Had a strong cartoonish look
at times and felt like I was watching an animation and real life movie
mash up. To sum it all up I just didn&#x27;t feel the whole cosmic universe
that the movie was trying to present. The film maker never explored Oa
and the lantern core enough to get us really attached to the film. The
earth scenes could have been cut from the movie to shed more light on
the cosmic elements that should have been understood. Thor had the same
cosmic establishment like this film, but sold it far beyond this movies
approach. This movie feels like an hour and 30 minutes of foreplay and
15 minutes of action. I really can see what the director was going for,
but he was overshadowed by a horrible script that poisoned any attempt
of this film actually being good. The movie felt down played by a
terminal case of origin fever, telling too much and showing to enough.
You can go ahead and add this to list of this summer failures and all
time box office flops.
