2002_August 7 

I did not enjoy this film.  Yes, I enjoyed the special effects, which were
beyond superb, but it takes more than special effects to get me to enjoy a
movie.  When the Matrix was released, these effects were amazing, something
brand new and outrageous, but now they are nothing unusual and when you take
away that aspect of the film, you get nothing.  You get a stupid,
uninteresting plot and a cast of terrible actors, minus Laurence Fishburne. 
Not that the actors are terrible, just their acting in this movie is
terrible. Carrie-Anne Moss and Joe Pantoliano both prove they can act in
Memento, but here they just flop. And I can't believe that Keanu Reeves gets
cast for any movies because he is just plain miserable, one of the worst
actors ever to enter the business.  Plot and acting are two things I look
for ahead of special effects in a movie. I can enjoy a movie that has
absolutely no special effects whatsoever and was filmed with an amateur home
video camera, as long as the plot and acting are good.  This movie, with a
huge budget, wasted all of it on special effects and none of it on teaching
the actors how to act or paying the Wachowski's to improve the script and to
learn how to direct. <br /><br />Such a stupid movie, and I can't figure out why it is so popular.  Because
it was the first to introduce such effects?  Does that mean one must
automatically love the original, just because it was the first? The
Matterhorn Mountain at Disneyland was the first roller coaster to introduce
steel tubular track, but is it my favorite steel roller coaster?  No. 
Coca-Cola was released before Pepsi-Cola, but is Coke my favorite soft
drink?  No.  So why must this movie be everyone's favorite just because it
was the first to introduce these visual effects?  I don't know and won't
know.  The only answer I ever hear from people as to why they loved this
movie is &quot;Well didn't you see the special effects?&quot;  Screw the special
effects.  Give me Memento, a movie with virtually no special effects.  Give
me Field of Dreams.  Philadelphia.  Even My Dog Skip.<br /><br />Matrix - 2/10 (for Fishburne, whose appearances were the only decent
ones).
