2001_July 5 

The initial response to seeing this is much like after having seen Star Wars
for the first time. You just go &quot;Wow!&quot;. The best movies use the visual
medium to create new worlds and bring them to life, and that's what this
movie is all about. <br /><br />In the case of &quot;The Matrix&quot;, you start out with a female hacker being
confronted by a squad of cops. She makes a spectacular escape, making moves
that are simply superhuman, and which sets up the tone for the rest of the
film. You know within the first five minutes that you are in for a wild
ride. Next, we are introduced to &quot;Neo&quot;, a hacker by night, a working stiff
in a huge software company by day. He's a regular schmuck, his boss chews
him out for showing up late because he's been out partying all night with
his cyberpunk friends. Things seem normal enough, but something just isn't
quite right. When Neo digs deeper, and makes contact with a mysterious
fellow known only as Morpheus&quot;, he finds out just how wrong things really
are. The most bracing scenes in this whole movie are when Morpheus shows Neo
exactly the true nature of the world he lives in. Even though you know this
is a sci-fi thriller with bizarre plot twists, you are simply not prepared
for what he finds out. Without revealing the actual plot, let's just say it
borrows ideas put forth in The Terminator, Total Recall, Tron, Blade Runner,
and even Alice in Wonderland and 1984 (think of the interrogation scene) yet
creates a completely original story to which are added stunning visual
effects. And yet, unlike some other films, the effects just add to the basic
plot as opposed to becoming the dominant feature (a la Terminator 2). For
example, the virtual reality fight scenes are in themselves amazing, but
merely serve to point out that, in such an environment, a well trained
warrior could use his/her mind to overcome the limits of body and physics
and accomplish the impossible. <br /><br />Well, lest I ramble on too long, the basic point is this is one of those
rare movies that just grabs you from the opening minutes and never lets go.
It sucks you into a bizarre world that nonetheless seems totally real and
believable. What more could you ask for in a sci-fi action
thriller?

