2001_December 30 

What is real and what is just perception?  The question sounds simple, but
The Matrix spins complicated riddles of real world versus a computer
generated one so convincingly that you'll find yourself thinking twice. 
It's a what-if action film that poses the reality that nothing we see, hear,
taste, touch, smell and think are altogether real.  That human beings are
blinded in &quot;the matrix&quot; - a dominating computer program that fools us into
believing that this world exists.  Why you ask?  Well its simple.  Computers
are evil and will do anything to take over the world.  This premise has been
used effectively in the Terminator films, and goes further here by tricking
the audience as well as the main character Neo, played by Keanu Reeves.  Neo
begins his journey like the rest of us - ignorant to the truth.  He meets
the leader of a small resistance and must make the choice: whether to live
in a false world where computers secretly use human beings as energy
sources, or to join the fight against this invisible tyranny.  This is a
movie with incredible action sequences and ground-breaking special effects. 
Innovative camera angles and digital tinkering will leave you jaw dropped. 
The pace is very fast, and at times confusing.  The sinister &quot;agents&quot; are
dark physical manifestations of the matrix, and persue Neo and his
resistance group through a world that is unclearly real.  The out of this
world action scenes confine themselves to the rules imposed by the
far-fetched original concept.  This movie succeeds because of its
frightening warning and foretelling of a possible computer controlled
future.  There are a few strange and slow points in this film that leave
unanswered questions.  How Neo can actually defeat an indestructable
computer generated agent by simply flying into him is beyond me.  What
baring did the oracle have on anything?  How did Morpheus manage to dodge
the hundreds of gatling gun bullets?  What is so good about Neo and company
killing ignorant and  innocent people under the spell of the matrix rather
than rescuing them?  I guess we are not supposed to ask these questions of a
movie based on a comic book.  These small points of contention can be
overlooked for the nicely delivered bigger picture.  The Matrix is a great
film.  Final Rating = 8.2/10
