2012_February 20 
Overwhelming and spectacular first part from a trilogy with some of the
best action scenes ever made . This excitingly original film is full of
thrills , cutting-edge visuals, stylist innovations , fights , tension
, suspense and groundbreaking races , but also several commercial
elements , including computer-simulated violence . This is a dynamic,
fast-paced and amusing movie , though overlong . It&#x27;s an enjoyable , if
somewhat light-headed piece of escapism with state-of-art special
effects and straightforward screenplay . Big-budgeted film by the great
producer Joel Silver led to break into the booming
Sci-Fi/adventure/fantasy market plenty of inventiveness and imagination
. Full of action, it&#x27;s complemented by rousing scenes , breathtaking
fights and struggles are spotlights . It deals with Neo (Keanu Reeves)
&#xA8;who is thought to be the chosen one&#xA8; a computer hacker learns from
mysterious rebels about the true nature of his reality and his role in
the war against its controllers . One night, a mysterious woman named
Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss)seeks him out and introduces him to that
faceless character he has been waiting for : Morpheus (Laurence
Fishburne) who carries him to Oracle (Gloria Foster) . Then Neo is
advised by the Oracle about his future . As Neo learns about Matrix ,
he aware all life on Earth may be nothing more than an elaborate
masquerade created by a malevolent cyber-intelligence and he results to
be the chosen one . The rebel leaders led by Morpheus estimate that
they have little time until 250,000 probes discover Zion and destroy it
and its inhabitants. During this, Neo has to decide how he can save
Trinity , Morpheus and partners from a dark fate and taking on Agent
Smith (Hugo Weaving) and his hoodlums . Meanwhile , a traitor betrays
the group and the events get worse . It is a dark time for the world in
this first adventure as the epic war between man and machine reaches a
thundering crescendo : The group desperately battle to hold back the
marauding Sentinel invasion from overtaking them . Neo, Morpheus and
Trinity race against time to get their purports . While the human city
of Zion is preparing for the oncoming war with the machines with very
little chances of survival.<br /><br />This is an action-packed , booming following with some of the best
action scenes ever filmed , plenty of bounds and leaps over buildings ,
including awesome visual effects by John Gaeta . This thrilling movie
contains impressive fights , chills , breathtaking designs , dense
philosophy and many other things . From the beginning to the end the
comic-book action-packed and extreme violence is continued and it&#x27;s
fast movement ; for that reason the picture is pretty amusing ;
furthermore contains lots of spectacular combats in mart arts style
staged by Yue Woo Ping who also made &#xA8;Kill Bill&#xA8; and &#xA8;Crouching tiger,
hidden dragon&#xA8; . Contrived beyond belief with spectacular struggles
that play like video games , but slickly calculated to please 2000s
audiences . Moving and pulsing musical score by Don Davis . Magnificent
, glamorous production design by Owen Paterson . Colorful and
imaginative cinematography by Bill Pope . The motion picture is
stunningly written , produced and directed by Larry and Andy
Wachowski-The Wachowski Brothers . It&#x27; s followed by &#xA8;Matrix Reload&#xA8;
and &#xA8;Matrix revolutions&#xA8; with similar artistic team and cast adding
Anthony Zerbe , Harry Lennix, Gina Torres , Harold Perrineau, Jada
Pinkett Smith, Nora Gaye , among others in which the the city of Zion ,
the last outpost of humanity , is defended by valiant warriors against
the massive invasion of the machines to save the humanity as Neo ,
Morpheus and Trinity fight to end the war at another front while also
opposing the invasion on the hidden underground refuge .
