1999_September 27 

I had high hopes for this movie, being a huge fan of the &quot;what if none of
this is real?&quot; genre, but I was disappointed.  The film does have a few
things going for it - let me cover those first, since that won't take long. 
The visuals are beautiful and stunning - whoever shot this movie is indeed
an artist.  I can't remember a film that was this fascinating just to look
at.  The film also has a creative and intriguing premise (which I can't
mention, or it would spoil it).  Keanu Reeves, who is a horrible actor, is
actually more tolerable in this flick than he has been in most of his others
- mostly due to the fact that the role requires almost no acting.  Keanu
does look good in the film, and Carrie-Ann Moss looks fantastic in tight PVC
pants!  That's it for the good, now for the bad: the story has holes in it
the size of Texas.  Is it really so hard to write a story that makes sense,
that is tightly crafted?  Total Recall and The Terminator come to mind as
examples of tightly written sci-fi films.  I can't go into the details of
the many, many things that just don't make sense since it would spoil it for
those who haven't seen it.  Did the writers not understand virtual reality
at all, or did they just assume the audience was too ignorant to notice the
absurdities and non-sensical aspects of their virtual world?  Seems like the
makers of The Matrix just got lazy.  They had a great premise and Keanu
Reeves, so they just threw in some extended slo-mo gunfights, kung-fu
battles, lots of big explosions, a pounding soundtrack, and called it a day
- very crass.  About those slo-mo gunfights, kung-fu battles, big
explosions, and pounding soundtrack - they came across as very contrived -
obviously hacked onto the story to make it an &quot;action&quot; movie.  How obviously
formulaic!  I can just hear the producer saying &quot;We have a pretty good story
here, but we want to make it an 'action' movie, so stick in these
elements...&quot;.  This film had serious potential, but ended up as merely
mediocre - what a shame.  5 out of 10.
