1999_April 3 

There's a moment in this movie where the character, Agent Smith, played by
Hugo Weaving says, &quot;They're not out of it yet&quot;. At this point, I didn't
know
whether he was talking about the characters in the movie or about the
audience members who were leaving the theatre or me, who sat through 2
hours
of this inexcusable and overall boring film. It's a movie that suffers
from
style over substance.<br /><br />The movie is the Matrix. The question is &quot;What is the Matrix?&quot; and the
answer is that the Matrix is not worth knowing about. It so happens that
every year, two films come out with similar plot lines or concepts. But it
seems that film makers decided to drop 4 films within the span of 2 years
all having a plotline about questioning the reality of our existence.
Early
last year, there was Dark City, a movie about aliens controlling the Earth
and using it as an experiment to live through various emotions of various
characters by controlling and varying their very existence, except for the
one character who has broken through this realm. This year, we're
bombarded
with 3 more films, The Matrix, The 13th Floor and Existenz, all asking the
same question and all seeming to have this theme that we are just pawns or
ant farm for another life form living in another dimension and doing with
us
as they please. Well rather than have just one person questioning it,
we've
got a merry band of marauders led by Laurence Fishburne, trying to save
the
world from this higher power.<br /><br />This film started off with such promise for our female character, Trinity,
played Carrie Anne Moss. Unfortunately, there is no real expansion on her
character and to have some people compare her to Sigourney Weaver in
Aliens
is a real insult. Not to say that her character wasn't cool, which she
was,
and how wicked she was when she kicked ass (she did all her own
stuntwork),
but having nothing more to her character really disappointed me. After
this
brief opening action scene we are left dragging pretty much to the end for
any really good action sequence. Everything in between is supposed to be a
story of the Matrix and how Keanu's character, Neo, may be able to thwart
those who wish to destroy human kind. Boring!<br /><br />So does Keanu's performance reach a new standard of cardboard? Pretty
much.
He can't act and when he's trying to think out loud, it's pretty Keanu.
Anyways, in terms of him being the action hero in the flick, I can say
that
the martial arts prowess he possesses were very rigid and non-flowing, and
that if intentional, he tries (and fails) to move like Bruce Lee or Jackie
Chan in Drunken Master, emulating many of their characteristic hand and
facial movments. Most of the martial art scenes were reminiscent of these
old Chinese kung fu movies where the characters fly through the air with
no
affinity for gravity. It was really campy and the action was not really
kinetic but cheesy in those scenes. It was pretty laughable. So was the
kissing sequence between Neo and Trinity. Don't get me wrong. Some of the
action is neat to watch but nothing awe inspiring. One of the final action
sequences involves loud, two-handed gun battles (a la Woo), but it felt
really empty and unintense, with the exception of some neat slow-mos and
stuntwork.<br /><br />Now the process by which Neo is introduced to the Matrix and all its
importance is an interesting and slimy process from an effects point of
view. The imagery, set design and cinematography in the film are
impressive
but it's nothing new. It's very Giger and looks like something out of any
number of films that pay homage to his designs. The man-machine concept
has
been done to death but the idea of loading up skills into one's
subconscious
to allow them knowledge of specific tasks was interesting . Some of the
story line is original but most of it is just ripoffs from other films
including, the Terminator, Alien, Blade Runner, Star Trek and any other
science fiction flick that you could think of. I think the problem with
the
film is that it was hard to figure out whether this movie was trying to be
serious or campy and that ruined it for me. This is another movie, like
Dark
City, that had mondo potential but failed, in my opinion, on most levels.<br /><br />Watch the trailer over and over again. It's really a lot more entertaining
and impressive than this movie.

