1999_June 12 

Whatever happened to the good old-fashioned beginning, middle and end?  In
The Matrix, the beginning, middle and end run side by side throughout the
whole movie.  I have never in my life seen a film that rips off other
genres
so blatantly, that damns its own audience so openly, and has left me
leaving
the cinema so empty.<br /><br />Laurence Fishburne spends the whole movie talking pretentious scientific
babble, Keanu Reeves spends the entire film asking dumb obvious questions,
and Hugo Weaving gives us an example of the worst sub-Pulp Fiction acting
I
have so far encountered.  The film is full of Japanese-style slow
head-turning, Chinese style martial arts kicks and slow-mo high leaps,
Western-style slow walks with the camera focusing on the feet, with
Terminator 2 style special effects.  Any film, no matter how fantastic the
premise, will take as its reference point something that its audience can
relate to and will have contact with at least something outside itself.
The
Matrix does not.  In fact, this film is so far up its own a**hole it can
see
its earwax from the inside.  And any film that spends so much of its time
explaining itself is, by doing so, unsure of its facts.  At one point
Laurence Fishburne says that &quot;there is a difference between knowing the
path
and walking the path.&quot;  Well, matey, there is also a difference between
reading the script and making the film.<br /><br />The Matrix insults its audience on at least two levels.  First, it tells
us
that we are all empty and faceless and it has come to save us, and
secondly
by masquerading itself as in any way stunning visually, intellectually or
audially.  And if I'm missing the point, well try making the point a
little
bit clearer next time.  Plenty of explosions, meaningless special effects,
horse-manure dialogue, cool shades, slow motion and leather coats do not
make a good movie; in fact in this case they make a very bad one.  And The
Matrix is a very bad movie.  It is hopelessly inept.  Don't waste your
money
on this film.  Or if you do, don't let it drag you down with it.

