2002_March 11 

I have to say that the Matrix goes down as one of my favourite films ever.
The film is pure excellence in film making. There are so many levels to
interprit this film, it is an action sci-fi firstly, with an excellent
storyline but in the two hours or so of running time if you read between the
lines the film offers so many philosophical and religious undertones its
frightening, I can watch this film many times and not get bored because you
always pick up something new if you look close enough. I realised a few
references in the film for instance Keanu Reeves as a messiah figure.<br /><br />The script, aside from the undertones, is exceptional. The story is
excellently drafted out and there are great twists. Also the Wachowski
brothers direct the film with such style it is simply amazing. The film at
times comes across like a manga cartoon and you can tell that these guys are
fans of the Japanese cartoons when you see the lighting and angles etc that
are used occasionally. They really have created a tense and eerie visual
delight. The musical score also adds to the impressive visuals.<br /><br />Of course the big selling point of the Matrix to most are the groundbreaking
effects, from the creation of bullet time to the excellent wire work and
computer generated effects such as the chilling scenes as Neo awakens in the
real world. Despite all these technical flourishes that will drop jaws I did
not feel that the special effects were the best thing of the movie. For me
it was the way the story pans out and the pacing of the movie as well as the
amazing cinematography that create a dark manga styled world.<br /><br />The cast are all good, Keanu Reeves is a little on the stoic side but his
character is suited to that trait, other than a slightly wooden exterior,
Reeves is good through the whole movie and impresses in the stunning action
sequences. Carrie Ann Moss is very good and very sexy, clad throughout most
of the film in tight leather, she kicks rear with grace and beauty. Also
good is an impressive Hugo Weaving and the show stealer, Larry Fishbourne as
Morpheus.<br /><br />To the action sequences now, and for action junkies these scenes will live
long in the memory. The kung-fu fights are shot brilliantly and the
choreography is some of the best non hong kong ever put to screen bar Drive.
The four principal actors do the fights themselves despite not knowing any
martial arts and the fights also include excellent back breaking stunts and
wire work as well as some visual effects. For me though the best action
sequence was the lobby shoot out which is one of the best gun fights ever to
grace the big screen, the destructive brilliance of the scene was amazing as
Reeves and Moss take out a group of security gaurds while rubble is flying
through the air. The scene is definately a mild ode to master John Woo, who
the Wachowskis are fans of. The end battle is not a let down either.<br /><br />I would have to say that the film starts off really superbly, more as a
tense thriller than action orientated, although there is still action. The
atmosphere built up is tense and the film really draws you in. After Neo has
met morpheous and goes to the real world, discovering what the Matrix is,
the film kind of lost something for me, but still even then is a ten out of
ten flick, and of course that is where the kung-fu and effects really kick
in and the action builds up. I feel this film is so good that the sequels
will be mild let downs especially with the direction the story must take
after this films ending. Until the second film can be judged I will watch
this when I feel like it and leave you by simply adding
10/10
