2011_July 11 
I have seen funny comedy based films centered around women and this is
not one of them. I might be the odd ball in the bunch, but this movie
is not as funny or entertaining like people have been putting it to
be.I can count only one scene that grabbed a few jiggles out of me, but
the film as a whole, it does not deliver enough comedy to keep me
entertained. There are too many dry un funny moments that made me not
want to watch this any more. They created this film to become the
female version of the Hangover and it never quite accomplishes its
goal. I just not a firm believer that woman are not funny enough to
carry a whole film by their self and to appeal to every person out
there. Yes a few films will grab the attention of most females and some
men, but appealing to the masses, I just don&#x27;t think women comedy
movies can do that. Chesley Handler and Ellen are about the only women
I have seen enough of that can trigger laughter out of me and neither
one of them were in this movie, so I wasn&#x27;t laughin much during the
film. This movie lost me in the first 30 minutes and I just punished
myself to sit through the rest. It took forever for the movie to stir
up some drama to actually punchier my brain for some entertainment.
There spare ha ha moments, but nothing that causes great laughter. The
women in this film try to hard be funny instead of being naturally
funny and it shows on camera. They just become annoying instead of
funny. This movie plays out like a two hour long SNL skit presented by
Kristen Wiig and her bunch of humorousness friends. Kristen Wiig is
funny to watch in some films, but never quite holds her own in a film
centered around her. The plot of the movie was a good one, but the lack
there of comedy and running time are the downfall and really kills the
vibe of the movie. I guess I&#x27;m not the intended demographic for this
movie, but I just felt like there was nothing worthwhile going on. I
have seen a female wedding themed movie before , Bride Wars, and
enjoyed it a lot more than this film and they sold the concept better
than this movie. A lot of the jokes go on tremendously long and get
annoyingly awkward. This is one of the only films that has been
positively review during this summer and I for one feel the complete
opposite of the critics and feel this is a huge let down.
