2006_January 14 
Commercial star ship Nostromo, returning from a routine mission, are
detoured when an alien SOS is intercepted. Awakened from hypersleep,
the crew are obligated to land on the alien world where the call for
help has originated, but the ship is slightly damaged during the
landing process and three of the crew set out to explore the hostile
new world. They come upon a derelict spacecraft, the skeletonized
remains of an alien creature with an odd wound in its chest and a cache
of strange egg-like objects. Crew member Kane is brought back from the
exploration unconscious and with a bizarre, crab-like creature attached
to his face. He is still alive, and indeed, the creature on his face
seems to be keeping him alive for reasons unknown. The Nostromo is
repaired and the crew leave the desolate planet behind. The crab
creature soon leaves its perch on Kane's face and dies, and Kane
emerges from his coma, apparently in good health. But the purpose of
the alien soon becomes terribly clear; Kane has been impregnated with
an alien embryo which births itself from his chest in a shower of blood
and gore, killing Kane and escaping into the ships air ducts before
anyone can react. The crew set out to destroy the creature, not
realizing immediately that its accelerated growth has transformed it
into a huge and vicious predator whose only desire is to kill them all.<br /><br />Very loosely based upon the 1958 horror film &quot;IT! The Terror From
Beyond Space&quot; Alien is a masterpiece of Gothic horror, a haunted house
movie on a spaceship. Flawlessly directed by Ridley Scott, Alien, whose
plot is actually fairly simplistic and nothing new, is so filled with
dread, so claustrophobically genuine, that it seems like nothing ever
seen before. Ghostly steam, clinking chains, long dark corridors where
anything can be hiding, the suspense is unbelievably suffocating. We
never really get to see what the alien actually looks like until films
end, and so the quick flashes of tail, head and mouth are so brief and
so confusing that it only adds to the horror. Plus, Alien does what no
ghost story can do - there is no way out of this &quot;haunted house.&quot; There
is no escape from the horror within.<br /><br />The performances are all outstanding. The alien is not the only menace
to the all-too human crew; there are also soulless corporations and
short circuiting androids to be dealt with on top of everything else.
Faced with these dilemmas, every single crew member of the Nostromo are
absolutely believable. They're tired, stressed out, rude and bitchy and
they spend a good lot of time griping and snapping at each other, but
they drop what they're doing and stand together, protecting one another
without hesitation when they must. The gore is minimal; the death of
Kane is the bloodiest, nastiest moment in the whole film and because
Kane, played by John Hurt, seems to be the nicest of the crew members,
it just makes his painful death scene all the more horrible.<br /><br />Alien is a grim, visceral, satisfying horror film and remains the
unsurpassed best film in the series. Alien is an established classic
and should not be missed.
