2004_May 16 

I saw &quot;Alien&quot; at the theatre in 1979. At the time, I was on a
horror/ sci-fi binge. From 1977-1980, I went to the movie house to see
STAR WARS, STAR TREK: THE MOVIE, PHANTASM, JAWS, HALLOWEEN, THE LAST
WAVE, CARRIE, SUSPIRIA, DAWN OF THE DEAD, and loads of other great and
not-so-great films.<br /><br />I consider myself lucky to have seen films such as ALIEN when they were
completely new and unknown. When this movie came out, it was a
revelation. While STAR WARS gave us the technology that was so missing
in earlier Sci-Fi, ALIEN was a gift of design, hearkening back to such
efforts as FORBIDDEN PLANET and 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY. But more than
that was the absolute deviltry behind it all. H.R. Giger's symmetrical
ideas are the gross marriage of the human organism and the great
machine. From the &quot;boneship&quot; which sends out the Warning
beacon, to the hydraulic embodiments of the Nostromo, to the Alien
itself, Giger's vision is nothing less than disturbing. In contrast,
Ash's milky android is merely a shock vehicle. The Alien is, to me, the
incarnation of Satan: invincible, unstoppable, human in form but
completely alien, malevolent but calculating. The Nostromo becomes Hell
for the crew in the same way that THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE converted a
&quot;haunted house&quot; into a nightmare-world of sordidness. Another
great revelation of ALIEN was Kane's demise. For the first-time viewer
who has heard nothing (me in 1979), an eye-popping experience awaits.<br /><br />Imagine being in the audience of the local movie-house, among the first
to ever witness this! Another enjoyable feature of the movie was
Veronica Cartwright. In 1979, I was 17. When I was 10, 11, 12, 13, LOST
IN SPACE had been one of my favorite TV shows in reruns, after school.
Does anyone else remember how wonderful those days were? While the
character Lambert was not much more than a nervous Nellie, she was to
me riveting, as I watched Penny Robinson all grown up, chain-smoking
and cussing. Let me comment on the plotline also. I usually find many
plot holes in Sci-Fi films. When I saw DEEP IMPACT, for example, I
found the plot so objectionable that I actually engaged in a physical
altercation with my movie partner. LOL With ALIEN, there was little to
quibble over. Sure, Parker should've used the flamethrower rather than
attack the Alien by hand; yet I DO understand Parker's unwillingness to
put Lambert at risk. Some of the plot vehicles were somewhat
convenient, such as the space shuttle's velocity near the end; but that
falls under the heading of &quot;possible&quot; more than
&quot;improbable.&quot; I've seen this film probably a dozen or more
times since the first, and it loses very little luster. Of course, I'm
no longer surprised where the director intended, but the understated
characterizations leave something to the imagination of repeated
viewings (unlike the more conventional ALIENS) and Giger's panoply
never fails to awe and disgust.

