2000_October 1 

Along with Blade Runner, Alien marks the career highpoint of Ridley Scott,
who in these two films manages to provide enough depth and character to
match his visual splendour, unlike efforts such as Legend and Black Rain,
which although looking brilliant, are relatively hollow
films.
Initially this may seem like a simple horror with its crew of a mining
vessel being eliminated one by one by a cold-blooded alien, and structurally
it follows a lot of the same plot events (walking around in the dark, false
endings). What should be noted is that the cheap imitations that have
followed (some good such as Predator, some bad such as The Relic), as well
as the much more intense sequel Aliens have undermined the much more subtle
terrors of the original. 
It has to be said that as terrific as Aliens is, it is a far more accessible
and immediate film than Alien. This is not necessarily a bad thing, its just
that this does not do Alien many favours, especially for those who may have
seen Aliens first and hoped for an original of equal intensity. The truth is
is that Alien is just as intense, but in different ways. Whilst Aliens form
of terror puts you in the middle of a full-scale war, Alien prefers to leave
you lost in a maze-like house with a monster chasing after you.<br /><br />Like Blade Runner, Alien should be watched alone, and with full
concentration paid to it. The rewards are many: predictably, it looks
absolutely brilliant, with atmospheric, stunning use of lighting (see
Captain Dallas' descent into the vents to catch the alien). The music by
Jerry Goldsmith is truly sinister and haunting, lending more drama and
suspense to the proceedings.
The acting is the most involved and believable of all of the Alien films,
thanks to a very good script, though Sigourney Weaver's Ripley, whilst still
a great performance, doesn't really develop truly until the sequel.<br /><br />All this adds up to a masterpiece of tension and technical excellence, as
well as character and story pace. Credit to James Cameron for taking the
sequel to a different level and not attempting a re-run of the original
because in its field, Alien is peerless.
