2004_June 20 

&quot;In Space, No One Can Hear You Scream!&quot; That was the now-famous tag
line from the 1979 horror/sci-fi classic thriller Alien. Ridley Scott
directed this masterpiece about a spaceship sent to an unknown planet
to respond to a unanimous message. Upon arriving on the planet called
LV-426, they discover an abandoned spacecraft in which they found a sea
of fertilized eggs. One of them opens up and a strange creature jumps
out of it and sticks itself to the face of one of the crew member.
After returning to their own ship, they start examining the creature
still stuck to his face. The creature known as &quot;The Face hugger&quot;,
unstuck itself from the man's face, leaving him with no visible
injuries. Everything seems fine until a small alien bursts out of the
man's chest and escapes into the ship. The six remaining crew members
must then prepare for battle for their survival against this alien who
becomes pretty dangerous after they realize that it has acid for blood.
In 1979, the science-fiction genre was at its all-time popularity peak
after the release of Star Wars and 20th Century Fox wanted to cash-in
on this sci-fi mania that was going on by green lighting the Dan
O'Bannon script and hired a then-unknown Ridley Scott who had directed
his major film debut with The Duellists in 1977. What is impressive in
Alien, the original movie that started the franchise, is the work of
Ridley Scott, who truly made a very scary movie and one that stands the
test of time. H.R.Giger, who had painted a portrait of the alien
creature long before Dan O'Bannon had written the script, designed the
creature itself. Some people prefer the 1986 action extravaganza Aliens
directed by James Cameron, but the original is still the one to beat
and will always be. Sigourney Weaver made her film debut with what
would become her landmark role as Lt. Ripley, the famous heroin who
must defeat the hideous creature on her own. So if you like action,
suspense and scary moments, Alien is the perfect horror movie and a
true science-fiction classic. I give Alien a very good 9.0/10

