2002_November 30 

The 1970's were not very good for sci-fi films.  It was a decade littered
with rehashed plots, cheap futuristic visions, and way too many &quot;2001: A
Space Odyssey&quot; rip-offs.  Sure, a few films stood out from the rest (Star
Wars and A Clockwork Orange among them), but the 70's were generically
disappointing for science fiction cinema.  That is, until 1979 came
along...
In 1979, people were still reeling from the incredible genius of Star
Wars.
Star Wars was the ultimate intergalactic fantasy, complete with knights, a
princess, a hero, and an evil empire.  George Lucas made the final
frontier
fun, until Ridley Scott came along and made the universe a place of fear
and
unimaginable horror with Alien.
Alien is nothing short of amazing.  It's dark climate and extremely
realistic feel make it one of the best movies of our time.  By now
everyone
knows the plot; the crew of the mining vessel Nostromo land on LV-426 to
investigate an SOS.  While on the planet one of the crew members picks up
an
alien organism who grows and changes and picks off the crew one by one.
It's a really simple story obviously (it couldn't have taken Dan O'Bannon
more than 2 minutes to come up with the concept) but it develops at a
great
pace and is executed with an incredible eye for detail.
The protaganists aren't your typical &quot;cowboys in space&quot; characters.  They
are normal, tough, gritty people who want to go in, get the job done, get
payed, and get back home.  They have no interest in boldly going where no
man has gone before or fighting for truth, justice, or the American way.
For them, work is hell.  They are like the everyday person.  So when the
stealthy and deadly alien threat comes aboard the ship, they deal with it
like any one of us would deal with it, and it is completely
believable.
The Nostromo ship itself also signaled a change in the sci-fi standard
misconception that the future will be a place of perpetual sanitation.
The
Nostromo is dirty, grimy, and very realistic space ship that has spawned
countless look-alikes over the years.
A climate of fear is created when the Nostromo crew encounter the ultimate
predator...the alien creature.  The alien is the stuff of nightmares; a
black, lumbering, quick and seemingly indestructible monster that kills
with
raw efficiency and without mercy.  Throughout the film we are only shown
bits and pieces of the alien, keeping up our interest level while at the
same time scaring us out of our wits.  When you finally do see the
creature
in full, it's clearly one of the most original and horrific screen
monsters
ever.
Alien is a fantastic film that revolutionized the sci-fi genre.  The scare
factor fades after repeated viewings, but the movie's stylistic and unique
appeal never seem to go away.  The next film in the series, Aliens
(directed
by James Cameron of The Terminator) continues the Alien story but abandons
the claustrophobic horror of the first in favor of non-stop,
pulse-pounding
action.
Any fan of horror or sci-fi should see Alien.  It's a great film with few
flaws that will surely have you thinking twice about walking down a dark
hallway.
