2003_April 12 

Alien is the movie that started it all, delivering the most horrifying,
thrilling, and suspenseful film of its genre, and possibly of all time.
It
has all of the components and tid bits that excellent movies have. Some
of
its highest points are its cast, plot, score, direction, editing, special
effects work, and camera work.<br /><br />To start off with the technical things which provide Alien with it's
hollywood backbone. The editing and camera work are brilliant. The
editing
is almost flawless, and the camera work has not been matched to date. It
brings the audience into the movie, portraying the Nostromo and its crew
in
the horryfying reality that they face. it brings supense, thrills, and
action throughout the movie. Even in the slower parts and plot building,
the
camera work does an amazing job of showing the characters and their
surroundings, letting the audience take it all in.<br /><br />As for several key things to pull everything together, easily the most
visible and important is the acting. Before the film is even shot, the
casting is terriffic. They bring together seasoned film actors,
established
stars, and then throw in a talented, brilliant young woman into the lead
which leads to her career exploding into stardom. It is almost a
conspiracy
that Scott surrounds Weaver with such talent. Skerrit and Kotto deliver
terriffic performances to the movies, and Stanton brings seasoned acting
ability which greatly adds to the humanity view of the film. Veronica
Carthwright does an above average job of acting, because she wasnt given
much more to do then scream and cry like a frightened rabbit. But she
does a
good job of this. Another wonderful surprise the performance by Ian Holm.
Having to act almost the entire film with his facial expressions, being
given few lines and having to portray an emoitonless character. All in
all
this cast pulls it all together and delivers sound and excellent
performances. 9/10 Acting.<br /><br />Finally, what this film started out with, its script, is an excellent
piece
of filmmaking history.Dan O'Bannon Ronald Shusett have written an amazing
story, complete with twists turns and a terriffic ending. Alien is easily
the greatest and most suspenseful horror/sci fi/thriller since its date,
and
maybe of all time. It has aged wonderfully, and combined with every bit
of
crap that is released in recent days, sitting back and watching this
classic
suspense film becomes all the more enjoyable. In addition, on the DVD
set,
hearing Ridley Scott narrate the film is a wonderful surprise. You are
given
an insight into the movie mans buisness, learn of its challenges and get
to
learn a lot of Scott himself, who turns out to be a rather enjoyable
person.
