2004_February 2 

The best thing in Alien is its naturalness. The way the crew talk, its
spontaneity and casualness. They can be discussing a failure in a complex
technological device in the ship, but nevertheless they do it smoking
cigarettes and eating sandwiches, just as if they talk about the weather.
When they press buttons one feels that they did it a million times before.
They even play with the sliding doors to trap each other in order to be
listened to. These circumstances makes Kane's death during a moment of&gt;
relaxed camaraderie so unforgettable and shocking. One is not prepared at
all. No pomp, no memorable last words, just a funny comment about the
quality of the food and there it goes. Like the two mechanics, Brett and
Parker. One wonders what they are doing in such a mission, with their
Hawaiian shirts and baseball caps, p****d off for working extra time or
complaining about their low payments, as if they were in a factory. Just
imagine the same characters in a bad script, wearing glasses and overalls,
cutting off from the rest in the midst of trouble, challenging the others
with their technical notions. They cannot stand a comparison. The Alien
characters succeed in their improbability because they are not real; they
are true.<br /><br /> Alien is more a script achievement than a directorial one. The story is so
well written and solid in its structure that it could probably been as good
with any other director. One thinks that Scott is more at ease with more
baroque material, like Blade Runner. So there's little of the director's
world here, it's definitely writer Dan O'Bannon's territory instead, a
reinvention of the American horror genre, minimalist and philosophical, a
big budget with a `B' premise.<br /><br /> Alien is not the best film ever made. It's not even the best of the saga (I
consider `Aliens' a superior film). But one must admire the film's
efficiency. Efficiency given solely by the characters, not always by what
they say, but by the way they look at each other. These rules of the game
are established right from the beginning, and are followed religiously
thorough the rest of the film. There's nothing external altering this order,
just as we hardly know anything about the world outside the ship. Alien's
accomplishment is more in tune with films to-come as `The Thing' or `The
Abyss'. Like the Nostromo ship, O'Bannon's story set voyage beyond the
frontiers of the genre. Too bad that he didn't leave the irritating cat
there.

