2004_April 10 

Daniel Dillon owns much of the town of Kingdom Come, an area he obtained
in
exchange for a woman and a baby that travelled with him as a young man.
Now
he has the chance to become richer when Mr Dalglish arrives in town from
the
railroad company to scope the area for a possible railway route.  At the
same time, the woman he traded in exchange for the claim to the land all
those years ago, Elena, returns with her daughter Hope to ask for money
from
Dillon.<br /><br />Director Winterbottom is almost enough to draw me to watch a film, while
the
great potential in the cast brought me the rest of the way.  The film is
rather slow and deliberate but this is not a problem as it suits the
atmosphere of the town and the film.  However the various threads are
perhaps too restrained and insular for the film's own good.  It is clear
that Winterbottom is mirroring the coldness of his surroundings in the
hearts of his characters, but it makes it difficult to be involved in the
emotions of the story.  Also the fact that everything is quite polite and
restrained doesn't quite fit with what I expect from a small frontier town
based around mining and prostitution.<br /><br />Likewise the characters were too mellow for the majority of the film -
certainly Dillon does not seem like a man who has that in his past, he
isn't
anywhere near as complex as he should have been.  This is not enough to
ruin
the film though; it still is interesting and reasonably involving as a
collection of threads around the town.  If only it had had more in the way
of heart it would have been a much better film.<br /><br />The cast are pretty good even though they are restricted by the material.
Mullan is always worth watching and he does a reasonable job here.
Jovovich
is a very risky proposition sometimes but she stands out here mainly
because
her character allows her to show more of an emotional range.  Kinski is
wasted in a role that is key to the thrust of the film but is badly used
and
badly developed.  Polley and Bentley are both very able actors but neither
manage to convince; they are OK but their characters are not allowed to go
where they needed to.<br /><br />The story is interesting and, after seeing this, I will now try and read
the
original material it came from as I can see the potential that was quite
missed by this version of it.  The emotions of the story and the
characters
are not allowed to develop and it really robs the film of much of it's
power.  It looks great and feels very worthy but it is hard not to feel
like
something is missing.  Well worth a look but it requires patience to
enjoy.
