2001_January 6 

Probably more reminiscent of Heaven's Gate than the filmmakers would like,
The Claim ultimately works much more effectively than Cimino's movie, for
reasons that include Michael Winterbottom's ability to reign himself in a
bit. One can almost feel the director yearning to make the movie bigger
and
more grandiose, but that would not be to its ultimate benefit. The first
half hour is interminably boring, but the film ultimately overcomes that
with a fine second half. I felt Wes Bentley was good, but may have been a
bit miscast. He doesn't have the edge or mystique that one might have
wanted
from his character as a wandering surveyor for the railroad. Sarah Polley
is
excellent, and strikes an uncanny resemblance to the young Sondra Locke.
Fortunately, she has more going on than Ms. Locke. The centerpiece
performance really belongs to Peter Mullan. While Nastassia Kinski's role
as
a dying woman might give her a little more to play off of, Mullan usually
has to play his role with more subtle looks. He does quite well at that.
Winterbottom attempts to give this Western a very spare, haunting feel,
and
has mixed success. As mentioned, the first half seems to be regarded with
more gravity by Winterbottom than the forward motion of the story should
allow. The scene in the cabin that reveals the secret that Peter Mullan
holds comes much too early, and is much too short. One misses the weight
and
import of this scene, simply because Peter Mullan agrees to the Faustian
bargain much too soon. By the end, Winterbottom and the writer have
managed
to fashion a rather engrossing Western with a fairly classic feel. One
feels
that it would have been something Eastwood might have considered
twenty-five
years ago. The music is a real high point, with composer Michael Nyman
using
the requisite inspiration of Ennio Morricone's Once Upon a Time in the
West
(it is subtle, but it is there), while fashioning a haunting work in his
own
right. Cinematography by Alwin H. Kuchleris is tragically average. While
the
vistas are beautiful, and the look of the film should have been amazing,
the
work is too inconsistent. In the end, The Claim can be considered a flawed
success. It isn't perfect, but it contains enough of value to sustain it,
and the mere attempt at creating a Western of great artistic magnitude is
appreciated.
