2001_October 11 

It may not be SHREK but here is a decent comedy for kids and adults alike.
It starts off kind of weak but picks up momentum- if you can call it that,
let's say &quot;random funny stuff&quot;- after the first five minutes. There's a
gasoline pump fight among a bunch of airheaded male models done to the
tune
of &quot;Wake me up before you go-go&quot; and a bit where Will Ferrel dumps hot
latte
on one of his groveling assistants that had me in absolute stitches. I
thought Ben Stiller's Dr. Evil accent was uninspired but overall he did
the
best with what he had. Derek Zoolander ain't exactly the 21st century's
answer to Hamlet. That being said, Owen Wilson, Farrel, Jerry Stiller and
that &quot;Marcia Brady&quot; girl are very, very funny. Even David Duchovny's a
riot.
Like most of Adam Sandler's, Rob Shneider's and David Spade's movies, the
supporting cast really do just that: carry the film when the lead's
broad-based character has reached his plateau. And like the average
Sandler/Shneider/Spade effort ZOOLANDER is choppy and uneven. You can tell
they cut A LOT out of this movie. There are weird glimpses of anonymous
cameos left and right. I had to look up the cast list for this movie on
IMDB
to see that Andy Dick (unrecognizable as a fat, pimply, unibrowed masseuse
who has no lines) and Vince Vaughn (as Zoolander's brother, who again has
a
brief lineless close up) were in it. My instinct tells me they had bigger
parts, but they just weren't working, and all but wound up on the cutting
room floor. By the same token, my children (four and three years old) were
enthralled by the cartoonishness of this movie. The outrageous characters,
the sight gags, the music, the colorful production design, all are
engaging
for the young ones. And don't let the PG-13 thing dissuade any of you
parents who've had it up to here with the standard kid-fare. Even the
grown
up jokes are done in such an innocent way, you won't need to cover
anybody's
eyes are explain anything on the ride home. If nothing else, you- the
adult-
will probably enjoy the almost subliminal nods to older movies, including
a
MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE subplot that is nothing short of genius. Say what you
want about Ben Stiller, but as a director and writer, he knows how to
reference the classics. So if you want to go see something that will keep
the kiddies quiet and you entertained in a brainless kind of way, I
recommend ZOOLANDER.
