2001_September 28 

ZOOLANDER is one strange film.  Its sort of like a full on assault on the
brain, spitting out so many weird ideas and creative jokes all at once that
its impossible to catch them all.  The plot is so bizarre and haphazardly
constructed that talking about the story almost seems irrelevant.  It is
probably useful information to say that the plot has to do with
assassinating the prime minister of Malaysia and involves a somewhat
disturbingly funny funeral scene that overlooks the city of New York.
These
events would be disturbing enough if we hadn't all witnessed the WTC
attacks
a few weeks ago, but now they seem just so disturbing that the scenes seem
appropriate.  This perhaps made the film much darker than it needed to be
when released, but perhaps the way in which these events are presented, as
being rather dark and still humorous, that this film seems awkwardly
precient in a way.<br /><br />Still, as I said, the plot is irrelevant.  What makes ZOOLANDER important
is
that it is probably the funniest film of the year, at least for me.  Sure,
its not as wholesome as BRIDGET JONES'S DIARY, and it perhaps didn't have
the unexpected charm of RAT RACE, and it wasn't as much fun as RUSH HOUR 2,
and it wasn't as good of a film experience as SHREK.  However, it is
perhaps
the most consistently funny film I have seen, and the biggest laughs are
probably the most creative of the year.  Overall, the film is so packed
with
cleverly conceived and executed ideas that just thinking about each
individual scene provides entertainment in itself.  My favorite scenes
include what happens when Zoolander and his friends go out for Orange
frappucinos, the orgy scene, Zoolander's film prepared for his nomination
VH1 fashion awards, and the quite unexpected yet wholly appropriate 2001 A
SPACE ODYSSEY reference.  I'm laughing very, very hard just thinking about
these scenes.  I wasn't quite certain how much I liked the film right after
seeing it, but now I'm certain that it has provided quite enough
entertaining memories to sift though.<br /><br />If you let your mind think about it too much, it is perhaps easy to find
ZOOLANDER offensive, or find the plot ludicrous, or realize nothing makes
sense, or realize that you can't explain why your laughing.  But I would
advise you just let your inhibitions go.  The good laughs here are some of
the most refreshingly original laughs in years.  The only thing keeping
this
film from achieving cult comedy status from the likes of films such as
THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY, WAYNE'S WORLD, or AUSTIN POWERS:
INTERNATIONAL
MAN OF MYSTERY is that it isn't quite well thought out enough to truly be
as
effective as a whole.  It all just sort of fizzles out at the end, when
everyone realizes that there's no way you could possibly lead up to with
that incomprehensible of a plot.<br /><br />If the trailer of Zoolander seemed incomprehensibly stupid to you as well
as
unfunny, don't go and see it.  However, if you laughed at Zoolander's
trailer and are dying to see it, go on, as it is at least as funny as the
film's trailer.  There's a lot of weird stuff here, but it all flashes by
so
quickly that it will all wash out of your brain very quickly.  Unlike many
comedies, the hilarious moments are the parts that stuck in my mind after
the film and all the bad stuff washed away, which is something I truly
appreciate.
