2001_November 14 

I honestly can't remember the last time I have been so disappointed by a
comedy! I have spent countless hours defending Ben Stiller's last
directorial effort, the misunderstood 'The Cable Guy'. I think it is one of
the most inventive and original comedies of the 1990s. Hopefully as more
people see the woeful 'Zoolander', 'The Cable Guy's reputation will soar.
Because comparing the two movies makes it bloody OBVIOUS which one is the
real turkey!<br /><br />Look, Stiller is a funny guy, but any comedian is only as good as his
material, and 'Zoolander's lame jokes just aren't enough to sustain a whole
movie. The initial premise (a brainless super-model is turned into a
political assassin) is silly, but that wouldn't matter a jot if it was
fleshed out with strong comic situations and witty one-liners. Sadly it just
isn't. All we get are running gags about Derek's &quot;range&quot; of expressions, and
his sheer stupidity which are repeated ad nauseam until the humour is lost
and it simply becomes irritating.<br /><br />Owen Wilson almost steals the movie as rival model Hansel. Wilson has been
an actor to watch ever since Wes Anderson's debut 'Bottle Rocket'. He has
appeared in several movies where he out-classes the material. Once again it
happens here. The rest of the supporting cast range from passable to poor.
The latter especially regarding Will Ferrell, as arch-villain Mugatu, who is
excruciatingly unfunny. He manages to drag down every scene he appears in.
Milla Jovovich tries hard with a boring femme fatale role. Christine Taylor
is lovely to look at, but is saddled with an under-written character, like
most of the actors in this movie. Jerry Stiller who is usually fabulous in
anything he does, has one or two funny bits of schtick, but once again you
have to blame the mediocre script. And much has been made of the countless
guest appearances, but very few are noteworthy. Billy Zane's cameo is one of
the few that are worthwhile, and one of the rare genuinely inspired moments
in this sorry mess. <br /><br />The most frustrating thing is that going by 'The Cable Guy', or Stiller's
first rate comic appearances in movies like 'There's Something About Mary,
'Flirting With Disaster' or 'Mystery Men', or even watching old episodes of
'The Mr Show', (who's David Cross and Bob Odenkirk started as writers for
Stiller), you realize that 'Zoolander' could have easily rivaled Mike Myers'
Austin Powers for belly laughs. Something went badly wrong along the way.
What a crying shame!
