2005_June 10 
I don't think I'll ever understand why this movie got such bad reviews.
Too stupid for most critics? Whatever. Zoolander is a consistently
hilarious movie.<br /><br />Ben Stiller should have more parts like this. It reminded me of some of
the hilarious stuff he did on his show (no, I didn't watch it when it
was first on, but I did buy the DVD when it came out). I was so glad to
see him break the &quot;There's Something About Mary&quot; mold of nice, regular
schlub who keeps having hilariously bad luck. Derek Zoolander was miles
away from this stock character. He was a brazenly stupid man who got
the good fortune of having ridiculously good looks, but he couldn't
even turn left! One of the funniest things I've ever seen was the scene
early on when he was beaten for best male model by Hansel (He's so hot
right now), but just walks up to the stage anyway, completely clueless
about his loss (despite the fact that the loudspeaker keeps booming
&quot;Hansel&quot; over and over again as he's walking up. That electronic
billboard he passed by with the words &quot;Confused Loser Zoolander Tries
To Steal Award&quot; was classic. I thought that the movie actually had a
lot of smartly written jokes.<br /><br />The supporting cast was great too, particularly Will Ferrell as Mugatu,
who almost stole the movie (like he usually does). And Owen Wilson was
great as Hansel, and so was Ben's dad Jerry Stiller. Christine Taylor
was fine as the love interest, but she didn't really have much to do
except react to the idiocy that was going on around her. I also liked
the smaller parts, like Milla Jovovich as Katinka, and Jon Voigt as
Derek's not-too-proud dad (his reaction to Derek's merman commercial,
and Derek's subsequent reaction, was priceless), and David Duchovny,
spoofing his character on &quot;X-Files&quot; and in the bargain doing the
funniest spoof of the show I've ever seen. The cast was good all
around, and even though I thought the movie fell apart a bit toward the
end (I think it was the orgy at Hansel's place that started to lose
me... I couldn't see Christine Taylor's character changing so
abruptly), the laughs kept going to the end, and as a comedy, as well
as a satire of the modeling business, I thought it performed admirably
on the whole. Like I said, I think Ben Stiller should do more movies
like this; for the first time in a while, I think we saw in this how
much of a comedic genius he truly is.
