2012_March 25 
Transplanted to Mars, a Civil War vet discovers a lush planet inhabited
by 12-foot tall barbarians. Finding himself a prisoner of these
creatures, he escapes, only to encounter a princess who is in desperate
need of a savior.<br /><br />When I first heard about John Carter, I didn&#x27;t know to think. The idea
sounded new and inventive, but the trailers said otherwise. Disney
spent millions for marketing, sadly marketing it as a clich&#xE9;, recycled
movie that has been done before. It consisted of action and dubstep
music, which is nothing new nowadays. Nevertheless, I saw the movie
with no expectations and was VERY surprised... Disney spent more than
300 million dollars for the movie and to market it. As said before,
they marketed it quite wrong and very sadly released it whereas no one
would want to see it. I, on the other hand, thought that this could
mean something else. I have a hate/like relationship with Disney&#x27;s
movies but after seeing their work on movies such as Pirates, I thought
they could at least do something different this time around... John
Carter starts wonderfully. It mixes other genres and clashes them
together for a enjoyable ride. John Carter starts off like a western
film, turns into a science fiction, and turns into a action/adventure;
all combined brilliantly. The cinematography was great, and the 250
million was spent well. The movie DOES tend to get to the kid&#x27;s side,
but the director did a great job turning away from this. Some scenes
(like with the monster dog) were cringe-worthy, but thankfully soon
after the film gives us something else. I hate how this film didn&#x27;t do
too well, because overall I thought it was a great money spent. It was
new, inventive, and thankfully enjoyable for all ages... My favorite
scenes were probably the ones on Earth, because we get to know more
about the humans than the alien colonization. The sets were great, and
the casting was pretty good too... Sometimes, the characters seem to
get a little too carried away, and mostly with the main female lead.
John Carter&#x27;s actor seemed to be faking the whole raspy voice, and I
had many other minor complaints, but nothing worth noting. So if your
here to enjoy something NEW, I greatly recommend John Carter. Ignore
the bad reviews, as none of them are credible, and sit back and enjoy a
action-packing, STORY-DRIVEN, experience. P.S: DO NOT SEE THIS FILM IN
3D. I&#x27;ve only seen a couple movies in 3D, and they were all pretty
enjoyable. But with John Carter (which was actually a
post-conversation) they messed up everything. I literally had to take
off my glasses every once and a while to give my eyes a break, and they
overdid it. And I do know that 3D gives the film a darkness, but with
John Carter I literally couldn&#x27;t see much at all. Minus the minor flaws
and the 3D, I recommend John Carter. 8/10.
