2012_March 3 
Last night I got to see John Carter with my 18 yr old son and WOW what
a movie! Let me tell you that I rarely read reviews, because I like to
make up my own mind about movies! Some of the Headlines of reviews are
so true. Burroughs is the granddaddy of Star Wars! The action in this
movie was always there or right around the corner and it never got
boring. It was not the edge of the seat movie, but it engrossed me so
much so, that I did not want to get out of my seat in fear of missing
anything. You wouldn&#x27;t have any problems understanding the rest of the
movie if you did. In my eyes this was a great adventure movie, with
lots of action, drama a love story and even some comedy. The love story
was pure and in no way shown off very sexual, as in other movies. The
actors did a wonderful job in making the characters there own. I love
Lynne Collins perception of her character Deja Thoris, which easily
could stand her own amongst the strongest warrior of either race and
never loose her sensuality! I thought that maybe Andrew Stanton did not
feel completely confident in putting some comedic aspect in to the
movie. There was no need to feel comedy was misplaced in this movie and
think the audience appreciated it and possibly would have liked to see
a bit more of it. In no way would more comedy have taken away of what
Mr. Stanton was trying to bring across with this movie. I certainly
enjoyed the comedic parts and maybe because of them my favorite
character was James Purefoy&#x27;s Kantos Kan. Although Mr. Purefoy&#x27;s part
was small, he showed how flawless and seamless you can combine a bit of
comedy with the fact his character was a force to be reckoned with and
should not be dismissed so easily. Most definitely a character I want
to see more of!Don&#x27;t get me wrong in thinking that I was looking for a
comedy. I wanted an adventure and I got it!! I also enjoyed the fact
that E. R. Burroughs got a part in the movie, which I think shows the
appreciation and gratitude Mr. Stanton has toward Mr. Burroughs and his
amazing writings. I do have to say I did 1 mistake of reading the
Novelization of the movie before I got to see it. It would have made
the surprise bigger not knowing what was coming up, but it did not take
away from the excitement of the movie. I for one can recommend this
movie to anyone, even if you never heard of Edgar Rice Burroughs or
don&#x27;t know any details about the John Carter of Mars books like my son,
I think you will like it just like he did. He did so much so, that he
couldn&#x27;t stop talking about it afterward and at home. I will stick with
my plan of going to see it on opening weekend and plan on taking my 11
yr old son with me this time! I hope you will enjoy it as much as I
did! One thing I forgot to mention was, that we got to see it in 3D. I
was skeptical about it. Some scenes really seemed too much in a sense
it looked too quick and everything just faded within each other. But
for the most part 3D worked perfectly! It did not look like or made you
feel a bullet was coming at you, or a airship was going to crash on top
of you but rather it made me feel I was part of the movie in standing
in the midst or next to the action. So for me the 3D worked very well
and I think I will go see it that way again.
