2012_March 10 
I really really wanted to like John Carter. I really did. I love Andrew
Staunton, the cast, the books...but the movie was just...not very good.
First, the script was really pretty bad. There was absolutely no sense
of rhythm or pace. The writers bit off way more than they could chew
and tried to throw so much of the 2nd and 3rd book into the first, that
they forgot to develop characters and build tension. There&#x27;s so much
important information that is lacking from the story, and unnecessary
information being thrown at you, that even I had trouble following it
(and I, theoretically, know what happens). They also added a bunch of
extra things to the story (particularly in the way Carter travels
between the planets) which, in my opinion, made the story line less
interesting and more corny than what Burroughs had written. Rather than
focusing on creating memorable characters (Tars Tarkas, Sola, and
Kantos Kan might as well be footnotes) and elaborating on the the
different cultures and belief systems that shape the world of Barsoom,
the movie focuses on action scenes and a story line which doesn&#x27;t occur
until deep into the second book. Without Burrough&#x27;s exquisitely shaped
and extensive ground-work, there is little to no reason to care about a
lot of what&#x27;s going on. It&#x27;s as if Yoda showed up and you knew that
Darth Vadar was Luke&#x27;s Father mid-way through New Hope. Why would you
care? The filmmakers missed a huge opportunity to show the extremely
inventive and thought-provoking ways in which Carter adapts to and
changes his new home, and as a result, they also really missed a lot of
the cultural commentary in the book. This movie had everything going
for it (especially with a 250 million dollar budget), and what&#x27;s really
disappointing is that some of the shots and lot of the character
designs (besides ALL of the red people) look really good. There are
moments of greatness in there (like the ending), but they are very few
and far between. I almost walked out half way through, and I&#x27;ve never
walked out of a movie before (especially one I was this excited about).
IN CONCLUSION: Read the books, they are mind-blowing, beautiful, and
way more interesting. This movie was just OK...at its best, and at its
worst...confusing, cheesy, and banal.
