2004_March 18 

Good time travel films have always held a certain amount of fascination
for
me despite the improbability and implausible concept involved. Traveling
through time is one of those &quot;what if&quot; fantasies one can continually
dwell.
I never grow tired of considering the endless possibilities involved if
such
thing were possible. I especially enjoy when a film gives us a new and
entertaining twist on the subject. With Back To The Future, director and
writer Robert Zemeckis along with writer Bob Gale has given us not only
one
of the best of the genre, but began one of the truly great film
trilogies.<br /><br />If you don't know the story by now, Marty McFly(Michael J. Fox) is a
teenager with more than his share of problems. His father, George(Crispin
Glover) gives new definition to the meaning of the word dork, his mother
Lorraine(Lea Thompson) is a worn out closet alcoholic, his brother Dave
(Marc McClure) works at a fast food joint, and his sister Linda(Wendie Jo
Sperber) is on the verge of becoming an old maid. Outside of the home, a
teacher named Strickland(James Tolkan) has it in for Marty constantly
referring to him a slacker and his father's co-worker, Biff Tannen (Thomas
F. Wilson) is constantly intimidating George even to the point of having
George doing his work assignments for him. Marty's best friend is an old
scientist named Doc Brown (Christopher Lloyd), and his girlfriend is
Jennifer Parker (Claudia Wells). It is his relationships with Jennifer and
Doc Brown that enable Marty to think he might somehow escape the trials
and
tribulations of his Daily life. Well, Marty does escape, but not a manner
that he could not have imagined in his worst nightmare. It seems that Doc
Brown has invented a time machine out of a Delorean and through a series
of
misadventures Marty gets transported back to his home town in the year
1955.
Not only does Marty meet his parents and his Dad's arch enemy Biff as
teenagers, he somehow manages to interfere with Lorraine and George's
romance, thus jeopardizing his own existence. It is left up to the Doc
Brown
of the past to help Marty set things right, and somehow find a way to
return
Marty &quot;Back To The Future.&quot;<br /><br />This scenario sets up endless possibilities and Zemeckis and Gale make
full
use of the concept. Not only do they have Marty interfering with his
parents
relationship, but his mother develops a crush on him in one of the most
hilarious romantic encounters one could imagine. The more Marty tries to
set
things right, the more Lorraine becomes infatuated with him. Don't worry,
Zemeckis and Gale never let the idea sink into sleaziness, but instead
develop it into one hilarious moment after another. What is amazing also
is
watching how the life of the teenage Lorraine is as different from the
adult
Mrs. Mcfly as night and day. It's a revelation to Marty and to us. As for
George, it seems he has always been somewhat of a cowardly type, but as
Marty discovers, he had hopes and dreams as a teenager much as many of us
did.<br /><br />Michael J. Fox was the perfect choice to play Marty McFly. Initially,
because of his TV series commitment, he had to take a pass. When Eric
Stoltz
was not working out as Marty, Fox was thankfully able to work things out
to
be able to do the film. For that we shall forever be grateful. It's not
that
I think Eric Stoltz is not a good actor, but his laid back and darker
personality would never have fit into what Marty was. Christopher Lloyd
brings a characterization to Doc Brown that makes him the glue that holds
the idea of time travel together. He's crazy enough to come up with the
idea
of a DeLorean Time Machine and has us believe he could make good on the
concept. His friendship with Marty is believable enough that their on
screen
moments together seem genuine and sincere. There is no other way to put it
except to say that if there is one character in this movie stranger than
Doc, it's Crispin Glover's George. His portrayal gives new meaning to the
words wimpy coward. Lea Thompson as Lorraine sets the pace for everyone.
Her
future Lorraine is different in so many aspects from the teenage Lorraine,
yet Ms. Thompson is able to pull it off without a hitch and still have us
believe they are one and the same person. There is nothing lovable about
Thomas Wilson's biff. He is the consummate high school bully that many of
us
dealt with on more than one occasion. We have to admit a great
satisfaction
in how his character is dealt with.<br /><br />Of course, as I have mentioned in other films about time travel, all this
good stuff could have been wasted if the film makers had copped out at the
end. It's the kind of thing that has ruined many other films of the genre.
Zemeckis and Gale not only do not hesitate in their assumptions of the
possibilities of what happens when you interfere with the past, they take
the ball and run with it making the film just that much more
satisfying.<br /><br />If you were to look at a list of my favorite films, you would see Back To
The Future on there, occupying a place of prominence. It is in the top 250
films on the IMDB, and one of the films that earned its place justifiably
so. And if you are on my personal list, and that list also, you get my
grade
and in this case it equals an A+.

