2008_June 29 
Few things are as difficult to accomplish as a movie dealing with
time-traveling. To take on themes as risky as paradoxes and time loops
you primarily need a healthy dose of courage and ambition, but most
importantly loads of writing talent and cinematic vision. The scenario
of &quot;Back to the Future&quot;, courtesy of director Robert Zemeckis and
co-producer Bob Gale, is honestly one of the most brilliant ones ever
penned down and, thanks to the financial support of several acclaimed
producers (including Steven Spielberg and Frank Marshall), it also
became one of the most massively entertaining films of all time, with
sublime special &amp; sound effects, diversity of genres and some of the
greatest casting choices and acting performances ever. &quot;Back to the
Future&quot; is quintessentially speaking a Sci-Fi comedy, but Robert
Zemeckis admirably also hints at the more emotional and melodramatic
aspects regarding time traveling. Also, even though the film boosts
some of the greatest effects ever, their use merely remains functional
and occasionally, so that the emphasis continuously lies on the story
and the development of the characters instead of on flamboyant
machinery and overlong speeches about scientific theories. The DeLorean
is a stylish and original piece of scenery, but other than the
fantastic and already legendary vehicle there are no giant laboratories
with thousands of flickering lights. Marty McFly is a typical mid-80&#39;s
teenager with a skateboard he knows how to use and a delightful high
school sweetheart that loves him very much. His parents George and
Lorraine, however, are a pitiable and hopelessly old-fashioned couple
and thus he spends most of his free time with his genius but slightly
eccentric friend Doc Brown. The latter invented a time-traveling device
and, following a series of bizarre events, Marty accidentally travels
back to 1955; the year his parents met and fell in love during the
school prom. Marty has only one chance to return to the future, but in
the meantime he has to correct the events he tampered with in order to
save the future and even assure his own birth. The script is very well
constructed and literally stuffed with witty little details that refer
to earlier events and/or events that have yet to appear, either later
in the film or even in one of the sequels. The humor works, the
light-headed tone and atmosphere puts a big smile on your face, you
come to care for the characters and the awesome soundtrack even makes
it difficult to remain in your seat. Michael J. Fox, Lea Thompson and
Thomas F. Wilson all give away excellent performances, but my two
preferred roles are for Christopher Lloyd (with his confused looks and
bizarre facial expressions, he makes a superb mad scientist) and
Crispin Glover. The latter appears to be born to depict weirdos and
uncanny freaks, so the role of introvert and mysterious George McFly
fits him perfectly.
