2000_August 13 

When this movie came out in 1985, it changed the world of film making
forever. Zemeckis' well-crafted movie was a critical and box-office success
and for good reason. I cannot even begin to describe the effect this movie
had on myself and all of my friends. We literally watched it every single
day during the course of a summer vacation and still could not get enough.
So many elements of this movie are wonderful and should be used more in
other films. The script is excellent and the direction is even better. The
opening with the clocks was magnificent and Christopher Lloyd's acting was
superb. The DeLorean time machine was a real gas and real horror show!
Michael J. Fox really hit it big with this one and his character was one
many people could relate to. Hill Valley was a great imaginary little town
somewhere in California and Marty's girlfriend was pretty hot, too. It was
hilarious when he gets hit by the car and is forced to stay in his mom's and
grandparents house for the night. Much of the content in this movie was
highly ironic and coincidental, but still managed to stay far away from
becoming corny. I'm surprised it did not win as much awards as it did.
Everything from Biff to George McFly was great and all the sets were
awesome. The final scenes were pretty heart warming and the prom scenes were
cool, too. I also enjoyed the scene where Biff crashes his car into the
manure truck. Can we get any funnier? I own part 2 also, but have still not
been able to get myself to purchase part 3. It is missing something that the
first 2 had. I really loved part 2 because it was much darker than the
first. The whole &quot;Hell Valley&quot; thing was pretty scary and also with the
Libyan's in the first one. Wow! This movie is amazing. I can't get enough of
it. It supplies everything a person needs for a night of watching movies
with some friends. So like, anyone not like this movie? I cannot imagine a
person rating this film any less than a 9. I saw the sets at Universal
Studios a while back and that was a great experience that I will never, ever
forget. I obviously recommend this movie to everyone who likes movies and
I'm sure it will pass the test of time in every sense. I wonder what people
in other countries think about this. Hopefully, everyone around he world
enjoys it. Stars: Michael J. Fox, Christopher Lloyd, Lea Thompson, Thomas
something, Crispin Glover and other people. Rated PG-13 (I think) for some
violence and adult content. I give it a 9.5/10 just because it got a little
boring during some scenes.
