2000_January 7 

Imagine if you could go back in time and meet your
parents when they were the same age as you? What
would you think of them? Would you hang out with
them? What if the parent of the opposite sex
developed a crush on you? This is the inspired
premise behind a movie that will live on forever in
my heart, the best film I have ever seen out of
thousands of films.
Back to the Future received an Academy Award
Nomination for Best Screenplay and numerous
technical awards. It was the biggest box office hit
of 1985. None of that explains what makes the film
so perfect. What makes it perfect is the way it
hooks you with it's premise and then carries it out
in a manner that will entertain and enlighten you.
It's a film that expertly blends so many genres.
It's a comedy, a drama, a rip roaring thrill ride,
sci fi action adventure, and love story. No movie
I've seen pulls off all these genres at the same
time. The movie transports you back in time and
teaches us how our lives are connected and the
significance of your family roots. If you're an
adult, you marvel at the recreation of the 50s and
the knowing jokes, such as the disbelief of
realizing that the actor Ronald Reagan was going to
become president. As a child, you realize that yes,
your parents were young once and they were even
like you in many ways. These are just some of the
issues the film deals with. You care about the
characters and live through their strengths and
flaws. It's hard to imagine anyone other than
Michael J. Fox as Marty McFly but as fate would have
it, he was the replacement for Eric Stoltz (a
terrific actor who apparently was considered too
intense for the role.)  This bold decision by the
producers to scrap several weeks of filming and
replace the lead actor was a risk that paid off
beyond their wildest dreams. Fox dissolves into the
role so easily that his acting talent sometimes gets
overlooked because he makes it look so effortless.
As for Christopher Lloyd, no need to replace him.
This is the role he will always be remembered for.
Who else could handle the rapid fire delivery and
sheer energy that his Doc Brown called for? He has a
lot of the best lines. Hats off to Lea Thompson,
Crispin Glover and Thomas F. Wilson, who each
endured makeup allowing them to play 17 and 47.
Their joy in playing these characters comes through.
All the roles down to the smallest were wonderfully
cast. The marvelous sets, costumes, editing, music,
sound effects, etc. And of course, hats off to
Director Robert Zemeckis, who went on to make Who
Framed Roger Rabbit and Forrest Gump. This remains
his masterpiece. He also did both of the good but
inferior sequels. This is the movie to put into the
time capsule (Delorean). Can't wait for the
re-release.

