2003_July 17 

The best family comedy of the 1980s by a long way, and probably one of the
best generally, Back to the Future has charm, wit, sparkle and even treats
its viewers with a little intelligence - a rare commodity. It's a
time-travel movie, as the name suggests, but it's not garish or over-the-top
- there are no monsters, no re-writing of history (well there is, but not on
a grand scale) and no gaping plot holes or ridiculous stretches of the
imagination. You consequently watch it with a smile and a few nods, rather
than incredulous wincing and head-shaking, and there are quite a few funny
scenes, some requiring very close attention or a second viewing as they are
subtley mired in the detail of the movie.<br /><br />The cast is excellent, providing just the right blend of normality, zany
histrionics and silly teenager antics. Michael J Fox is a steady actor with,
I think, a fairly limited range, but that is what's required in this role:
Marty McFly is the thread of normality in this film, and everything around
him is either abnormal or changes drastically. His offsider, Doc Brown, is
the stereotypical mad scientist; while his mother (Lea Thompson) is,
conversely, a house-bound drunken chain-smoker and a coquettish,
silky-voiced teenager. The sets and props also help this movie work too,
particularly the DeLorean-based time machine, the Doc's many other
inventions, the Hill Valley town square that is our geographic focal point,
and the costumery and adornments of both time periods.<br /><br />Why this film is attractive to a broad audience is that it treats both
children and adults with equal respect and empathy - the kids enjoy the
techno-humour, slapstick and over-acting of characters like George McFly and
Biff, while the relatively sophisticated plot interests the adults (let's
face it, most teenagers never stop to think that their parents were once
teenagers themselves, something that is thrust upon Marty - and the young
viewers in the audience. I think adults enjoy having teenagers reminded of
this.) The intracicies of time travel are also handed well, with both humour
and brains. Between 1955 and 1985 things change in Hill Valley: some are
obvious and cleverly done (the black cleaner of pre-civil rights '55 is the
town mayor of 30 years on) while others are more subtle and eminently
'missable' if your mind isn't switched on (Twin Pines Mall becomes Lone Pine
Mall after Marty runs down one of the eponymous pine trees in 1955). It's
this layering of ideas, rather than shoving them under your nose like you're
a short-sighted dimwit, that makes Back to the Future a deserved and rather
timeless hit.
