2006_July 1 
Suspend your disbelief in the mind-bending time-traveling premise; set
aside the ultra-modern DeLorean (which still looks way ahead of our
time 20 years later); peel back the 80s versus 50s clashing culture
references; look past the extremely well-played cast of stock
characters (the dashing, adventurous Marty, freaky fitful Doc, bullying
Biff, timid pining George); mute the magnificent musical score; and
strip away the splendid special effects (esp. the enduring parallel
flame trails) and you have, in my opinion, the centerpiece and finest
component of the movie--its superbly arranged plot. Movies tell
stories. Stories have conflicts and problems that characters have to
overcome. Back to the Future&#39;s plot is fantastic mix of interwoven
conflicts. There are the character problems--Doc&#39;s dilemma about the
morality of his scientific endeavors; McFly&#39;s family discord; Marty&#39;s
growing pains. There are major plot problems--Doc&#39;s quest to test his
machine; Marty getting stuck in time and trying to reconstitute his
family. And then the film weaves in a myriad of subplots and little
problems. The last half-hour of the movie throws one obstacle after
another as Marty out of the locked school, fights off Biff, takes
center stage, overcomes the downed cable, and still manages to get back
in time to save Doc. Take the intricate plot and throw in all the other
fine elements, and we&#39;ve got a movie that keeps the viewer at the edge
of the seat all the way up to 88mph. Then, with the denouement of the
story, every the conflicts is resolved. There are no loose ends. There
are no extraneous characters; everyone with a problem has it fixed by
the end. The complete closure leaves a hook for the next episode. The
special effects fit nicely within the story and do not overwhelm it
(unlike so many films nowadays). Same for the music. At the end of the
day, Back to the Future is a great story that leaves the viewer with
plenty of plot to digest. Best appreciated over several viewings.
