2009_October 12 
Well, it might be that everything there is to say has already been
said, but today I feel like sharing my opinion. I am one of those
people who put their DVD players on repeat. Especially, if I like what
I see. I saw this movie for the first time already long time ago, but I
do watch it over and over again. Today was one of those days. I must
say that even though I&#x27;ve seen it many times, it is still funny. I
guess it is not that easy to come up with jokes that would be funny
when repeated over and over. This team has done it. I am so impatient
for the sequel. I do wish those guys most of luck and success in making
the second film just as good and funny. I love the fact that this movie
has a reality feel to it. No matter how ridiculous and impossible the
situations are, it still seems plausible. Maybe it is because those
guys could be anyone and everyone. Like who hasn&#x27;t been to a wild
party?! Well, maybe not as crazy as that&#x85; Any way, it is something new
and fresh in the vast sea of American-Pie-type movies and all those
romantic comedies. Don&#x27;t get me wrong! I liked the first American Pie.
May be the second, but all those sequels and alike&#x85; no, not really. And
what&#x27;s up with all those romantic comedies!? Girl meets boy, boy meets
girl, and so on. Most of them are all the same. You can see them once
and forget just as you exit the theater. Sometimes I catch myself
guessing the turns of the plot and ruining the movie for my friends by
telling them exactly how it is going to end. I don&#x27;t like to be able to
do that after the first twenty minutes. I like surprises. It is really
rare nowadays that one gets that in a movie. There are so many things
made that I can understand that it is hard to find an original subject
and, even more, to surprise the viewer. Well, I would like to conclude
this short account of my impressions by citing a friend of mine who
said that this movie is the best thing that has happened in cinema this
year.
