2009_June 16 
Doug (Justin Bartha) is about to walk down the aisle with a beautiful
lady, Tracy (Sasha Barrese). Therefore, his pals are taking him to
Vegas for a big bachelor bash. These include schoolteacher Phil
(Bradley Cooper), businessman Stu (Ed Helms) and Doug&#x27;s soon-to-be
brother-in-law Alan (Zach Galifianakis). Free-spirit Phil is trying to
loosen everyone up, for Doug is less than adventurous, Stu is hogtied
to his girlfriend from Hades, Melissa, who thinks they are going to
Napa Valley for a wine tasting, and Alan is a chubby, consummate
weirdo. The friends arrive at the hotel and go up on the roof for a
toast. That&#x27;s the last thing they remember, for in the morning, they
wake up in a daze. A tiger is in their bathroom, a baby boy is in the
kitchen, and Doug is missing. What happened in-between and why can&#x27;t
they remember? As they try to piece things together, while taking care
of the little lad, they have encounters with the Korean mafia, Mike
Tyson, a hooker who is sporting Stu&#x27;s grandmother&#x27;s ring, and more.
Will they find Doug in time for him to make it to the ceremony? This
film is very clever and very funny, sending most of the audience into a
bellyache of laughter. However, it is definitely on the raunchy side,
which some filmgoers will find offensive. You definitely don&#x27;t want to
mention in Sunday School class that you saw it. The cast is nice, with
Cooper and Bartha quite fine as the two friends, and the lesser cast
members are great, too. But, stealing the show, are Helms and
Galifianakis, for they are funny beyond words and create very memorable
characters in Stu and Alan, respectfully. The scenery in Vegas is
glitzy while the costumes, camera work and other film amenities are
very fine. Most importantly, great applause should be extended to the
devilishly clever script and the rapid-fire direction. That does not
mean, however, that drug use, excessing drinking, and other unsavory
practices will seem &#x22;funny&#x22; to everyone. But, all in all, unless you
are supremely hungover and have your head in the toilet, you would do
well to head to the cinema for this one, all you comedy seekers. It is
a laugh riot, period, adios, sayonara.
