2009_June 11 
The Hangover, is about a bachelor party in Las Vegas for a couple of
friends that ends up going totally wrong, resulting in the friends
trying to remember what exactly happened the night before and retrace
their steps to eventually get back home again in time for the one
character&#x27;s wedding. More problems and off the wall hilarity follows.
It seems recently that a film like The Hangover could really be a hit,
or a miss. It is an R rated comedy that is very crude and sometimes
very silly and something like that could go either way with critics. We
have all seen how well the R rated films of Judd Apatow have been
received as well as films like Borat and Wedding Crashers. All of those
films for the most part I enjoyed a lot and I will add The Hangover to
the list of R rated adult comedies that actually work really well. The
comedic performances, which I always find so important to a comedy, are
right on target here with a few exceptional performances from some of
the supporting cast and overall they make the film work. The film&#x27;s
script is like I mentioned, pretty off the wall and it really is a wild
and crazy movie, but it makes for a very entertaining, hilarious and at
times exciting ride that you just get fascinated by watching. You do
not perhaps want to be one of the characters in this film, but watching
them and as things keep getting worse and worse for them in totally
unpredictable and bizarre ways it is very captivating and will sure to
keep you entertained. Even if this genre of comedy is not your
particular taste, I would find it hard for someone to be bored by this
film because it is so faced paced and wild that we feel the characters
and us in the audience have just entered a non stop roller coaster ride
that will make us laugh, feel a bit nauseated at times and will
certainly keep us alert and wanting more of the crazy ride we are on.
That, I feel is an appropriate way to describe this movie. And even
though a lot of the film is silly and a bit on the far fetched side, a
lot of it is very creative and just to make an almost two hour film
work so well as this one does, you have to acknowledge the talent that
went behind it. The performances work, the script works and the fast
paced direction all work and make this film not just an above average
comedy, but instead a very good comedy that is one of the best of the
past few years. It is very funny, entertaining and like I mentioned it
will capture your interest and take you on a wild jolted ride till the
film ends. I personally really enjoyed myself when I saw this film and
this is a perfect example of an adult comedy done right that is pure
entertainment, but done well, so we are not only entertained, but get a
lot of laughter and enjoyment from watching it. One of the best
comedies of the year so far and for fans of the above mentioned films,
this is highly recommended for you as well.
