2011_November 12 
In a world where technology exists to enter the human mind through
dream invasion, a highly skilled thief is given a final chance at
redemption which involves executing his toughest job to date:
Inception.<br /><br />Lucid dreams. First heard of back in 2008, I became highly intrigued. I
joined various websites; discussed, practiced, and loved it. Only a
true lucid dreamer would completely freak out when Nolan announces
Inception. Better yet, this movie was based off his experiences with
lucid dreams. The trailer blew me away, and the first day it came out,
my tickets were bought and I came in extra early with anticipation. But
what I got back was... better than what I expected. Inception is most
possibly the greatest movie of all time, it combines all the elements
of a great film; and combines the thought of lucidity and dreaming. The
thoughts expressed by Nolan are genius and further my interest in
dreams. First up, the acting was great. Everything was real and every
performance was top notch; NO complaints. Next we have the score. Yes,
it needs to be discussed. The movie actually had me go out and by the
score. The theme to the tracks like &#x22;Dream is Collapsing&#x22; will make
everything much more epic. Even the more subtle tracks are highly
synchronized with hypnotic depth that will surely put you in a dream
state. In fact, one of the tracks was actually a slowed down version of
the song we hear: &#x22;Non, Je Ne Regrette Rien.&#x22; Han Zimmer has outdone
himself on this score, and I must admit it should have won over the
Social Network&#x27;s. The cast, the directing, the cinematography, the
everything was incredibly well done and hopes for more is high. Then we
have the ending... This ending leaves the watcher wondering what is
real or not. The question we should all ask ourselves after awakening
from a dream. It&#x27;s compared to a reality check where we check our hands
to see if we are dreaming or not; and the spinner is a metaphor. Cobb
is too distracted by his kids to find out what is real or not; and
whatever happens, he knows he is in the right place. I&#x27;m glad Nolan
decided to leave the film like this because it arises questions and
theory of the beautiful outcome. I am pretty hatred over people&#x27;s
sayings that the film tried &#x22;too hard&#x22; to be confusing. The film is
intelligent, it has its points, and the film is all revolving over
dreams. So obviously the film would have to be confusing, because the
realistic possibilities are amazing. Then we have some people that say
the action scenes were pointless and were just there to satisfy the
viewers. No. The action scenes had their position and they made the
film more enjoyable. The enemies were projections that had their
mission, and they were successive. After the movie, I had a nice dinner
talk over the ending, the movie itself, and everything that needed
discussion. I was overall astonished at how amazing Inception turned
out to be... It has became one of my favorites, with so many things
that make it the best. Inception deserves it&#x27;s awards and frankly, it
even deserved more. Even director James Cameron gave his kudos to Nolan
for his work and mind on this film; that is a lot of respect. I have
high hopes for more tales of this dreamy universe, or maybe even a
continuation of Cobb&#x27;s. Whatever happens, I have high hopes for ANY
project Nolan makes. His work on Dark Knight and Memento and everything
else deserve high gratification, and I&#x27;m sure whatever he does will
turn out to be just as good as this. Inception is highly recommendable.
I cannot express how much it holds: heart, soul, and power. It surely
is one of the best movies of today. Inception... 10/10.
