2010_July 18 
While I risk angering everyone caught up in the fervor surrounding this
film, I have to say that I was left unsatisfied. The visuals are great
but Nolan simply tries to pack too much information into too long of a
movie, and mediocre (at best) dialogue does not help to lift the story.
As a stand alone idea the film is brilliant, but this idea is only
bogged down by the writers and the limited room for the actors to
explore their roles. First off, DiCaprio is acting in a role that is
far too similar to his previous part in Shutter Island, and he has no
room to show his acting talent as he is constrained to situations where
he must look constipated with mental pain and answer the frustratingly
dumb questions from Ariadne (Paige). (Is that supposed to be Adriane?
Arachnid? I was never really sure why no one could have normal people
names) This is in no way the fault of Paige, DiCaprio, or any of the
others forced to conform to a script that sounded more like a cheesy
Jerry Bruckheimer action film than the mental candy that it is being
made out to look like. (Lines like &#x22;assemble your team!&#x22; come to mind)
My biggest problem, though, is the seemingly infinite collection of
small faults in logic, personality of characters, and setting. The
viewer must take many leaps of faith, excusing many holes in the plot
and the way the plot is constructed. Once one of these holes in
uncovered, and it inevitably will, because you leave the theater
thinking, all of the others suddenly become very apparent. None of the
characters have a personality, they are simply there to do the bidding
of Nolan; unexplained, and unmotivated. We have no connection to the
setting (or any of the settings) because they have no importance to the
story. These events could be happening anywhere, and the backdrop just
seems like an excuse to say &#x22;look! you&#x27;re in a dream! did you know
you&#x27;re in a dream? what about now?&#x22; With a confusing structure, poor
script, inhuman characters, and no motivation for anything (the viewer
is told when to be more interested by the booms from the soundtrack),
Inception is an idea that has been polluted by the desire to create an
awesome summer blockbuster. Nolan dances around his brilliant idea,
which in itself drives this movie up to a 5/10, but he never touches
it, and too afraid to ask one probing question to the audience with any
sort of clarity, choosing instead to pose a plethora of confusing
questions that only serve to dilute the films core; a center which it
pains me to say is pure genius.
