2010_December 12 
Is this like The Matrix for a new generation? Maybe one could make that
kind of comparison but Inception is even better, smarter and even more
groundbreaking. Of course I was aware that this film had been praised
by most critics, still Inceprion managed to totally blow me away. The
film is very complicated in more than one way. When it began I soon
felt I had no idea what was going on, but still it immediately grabbed
me to full attention. It is not often when having seen a science
fiction, action, thriller that I feel I need to see it again to
understand how it all was held together. But the reason for this was
not because the plot was poorly told in anyway or flawed thought out,
not anything of that kind. The reason was that the story in Inception
is so sophisticated that I simply was not able to take in all of it and
figure out how it all worked. There are several complicated films but
while quite a lot of film like that don&#x27;t know how to explain it all
with Inception I felt at the end that it perfectly ties it all
together. Still I myself need to see it again to get it all. However it
was not just cause of this that I wanted to see it again right away it
was also for the film was so great and entertaining. Inception is one
of the most unique looking film in a pretty long time. It is not often
that a action film has both the style and substance but Inception has
just that and combines them perfectly. The cast is absolutely
brilliant, all of them. It is quite a large number of stars that Nolan
has gathered up. I&#x27;m not usually a big fan of Leonardo DiCaprio but
after seeing this I can&#x27;t really imagine anyone else in the lead role
here. Eventough there are several actors in significant roles none of
them feels wasted like given to little screen time, instead they all
contribute importantly to the overall picture. Joseph Gordon-Levitt so
cool, Ellen Page extremely impressive, Cillian Murphy creates a very
deep character. That Christopher Nolan is one of the best directors
working right now one knew already but with Inception he has really
outdone himself. This might be Nolan&#x27;s best film yet. The script,
style, music, characters it&#x27;s all in this film. Not often has a film
the length of 148 min gone by so quickly, I was like no it&#x27;s over,
immediately see it again. Now to summarize my thoughts on this film.
Inception is one of the best, most sophisticated, amazingly styled,
mind-blowing films in ages. Will we be talking about it in several
years form now? Yes I think so!
