2010_July 16 
The problem with this movie is that the plot is too convoluted, thus
diverting attention away from the movie&#x27;s basic premise, that of how
the brain functions during sleep. This is a fascinating, esoteric
subject but like all fascinating subjects, when Hollywood gets a hold
of it, look out! You may be in for a ride, to a place we know not
where. A story works best when it has a beginning, a middle and and
end. When you tamper with that structure, such as by starting a movie
with a flashback, you&#x27;re inviting confusion and frankly, who wants to
go to the movies to be confused. Stories should be told
straightforwardly, but that is not the case with this movie. Is Mr.
DiCaprio in a dream or not? After a while, it becomes a moot point as
the movie just keeps rambling on and on to its inevitable conclusion.
Nevertheless, the movie does explore some interesting subjects such as
idea formation, mind manipulation, the subconscious and mental activity
during sleep. Where the movie stalls is in plausibility and structure.
Yet, despite these drawbacks, the movie is worth watching because of
Leonardo DiCaprio who once again gives an excellent performance as a
stalwart yet troubled mind prober. He carries the movie which alone
makes it watchable. <br /><br />Once again Hollywood has taken a perfectly good idea for a movie and
has watered it down. Brainwashing is a fascinating subject. It is a key
element in The Manchurian Candidate. How do we know that our ideas are
actually ours and not planted into our heads? That is the underlying
theme of this movie. The problem is, the story itself is so muddled and
confusing that at times it becomes a distraction. Leonardi DiCaprio is
excellent as a mind prober with emotional issues which get in the way
of doing his job. The premise of the story is interesting , especially
as it relates to questions of consciousness and unconsciousness and the
formulation of ideas during sleep. But then the movie loses focus as
the DiCaprio character gets more and more hung up on his emotional
problems, thus diverting attention away from the movie&#x27;s original
premise. However, this is a good movie and is worth watching but with
this disclaimer: it may put you to sleep.
