2012_February 5 
Crazy, Stupid, Love promised kindhearted, if not benign, pokes at the
unpredictable misadventures provoked by being in love. Helmed by
directors Glenn Ficarra and John Requa, whose previous film I Love You
Philip Morris was an effortless blend of cynical sweetness and charm,
Crazy, Stupid, Love seemed like an easy homerun when considering the
superbly talented cast they had assembled. Sadly, this film only serves
to prolong Steve Carell&#x27;s post-40 Year Old Virgin slump, joining the
likes of Dan in Real Life, Evan Almighty, and Date Night in the actor&#x27;s
past mistakes. It is obvious Crazy, Stupid, Love prides itself on its
candidness. Characters blurt out whatever is on their minds, and act
upon any impulse no matter how foolish. The film begins with Cal and
Emily Weaver (Steve Carell and Julianne Moore) out to dinner during one
of the most ritualistic of 21st Century suburban events &#x96; the date
night. When Cal unassumingly asks his wife what she wants for dessert,
she compulsively exclaims she wants a divorce. It turns out Emily has
been unhappy for quite some time, and even confesses to having had an
affair with her coworker David Lindhagen (Kevin Bacon). Cal is
understandably blindsided by these revelations; he is one of those
dopey husbands that assumes everything is fine when no one is
complaining. Apparently being a kind, caring husband and father is not
enough for the new bourgeois American wife weaned on The Real
Housewives and other such filth. This film&#x27;s portrayal of men and
women, husbands and wives, mothers and fathers are, simply put,
disgusting. This is a film where boredom is an understandable
justification for divorce. Where we are expected to sympathize with a
woman that kicks the father of her children out of his home without
giving him any chance to mend their issues. Cal, having been cheated on
and cast out from his family unit, is the one expected to &#x22;change,&#x22; and
to be the one that fights for the marriage. This is a film that
glorifies Jacob Palmer (Ryan Gosling), a 20-something club-hopping
womanizer who lives off of his dead father&#x27;s inheritance. With no
ambition beyond sleeping with every attractive woman he comes into
contact with, Jacob is most likely a degenerate sex-addict, bringing
home a new girl every night. For Crazy, Stupid, Love Jacob is a hero.
He is the savior to Cal&#x27;s humdrum suburban persona, and promises to
help the hapless ex-husband learn how to meet women. This includes
maxing out his credit card on new suits, and memorizing every
manipulative line and mannerism to trick, I mean motivate women to
sleep with him. This film quickly goes from bad to worse, adding not
only a silly B-plot involving Cal and Emily&#x27;s teenage son and the
babysitter, but also a misaligned C-plot involving Jacob and the girl
of his dreams (Emma Stone). It is by way of these useless and
underdeveloped subplots that Crazy, Stupid, Love sacrifices structure
and common sense for shallow twists and nonsensical character
development. It tries to sell depravity as charm, and selfishness for
self-reliance. It portrays women as shallow and superficial, men as
emotionally unconscious boobs, and everyone as oversimplified
instinctually confused wrecks completely incapable of empathy or
self-restraint. This was the worst movie of 2011. *IF YOU LIKE MY
REVIEW PLEASE COME TO MY WEBSITE WWW.CONTROLLERUNPLUGGED.COM FOR MORE*
