1999_November 3 
<br /><br />Moviegoers who long for the epics of the fifties and sixties will enjoy this
version of the saga of Joan of Arc, who led her people to victory over the
English in 15th century France. As directed by Luc Besson
(The Professional, La Femme Nikita) the film relates the story of a young
girl from her earliest days
of life in a peasant village to her final tragedy. This oft told tale was
previously told in last year's
mini-series (Leelee Sobieski), a 1950's drama with Jean Seberg (Saint Joan)
directed by Otto Preminger and a 1948 feature with Ingrid Bergman in the
title role. In &quot;The Messenger: The Story of Joan of Arc&quot;, Milla Jovovich
struggles admirably, with only partial success, in bringing this iconic
figure of history to life. If only Besson had tried to mute some of the
histrionics, the balance of fine performances of the rest of the cast would
have added to a better whole.
Other characters continuously tell Joan to calm down. I believe audience
members wanted to shout that
to her also. <br /><br />Aside from that, the legend is well told. The epic battle of Orleans is
spectacular and gruesome. Heads are lopped off and limbs are dismembered
with impunity. Interestingly, though, there is some humor evident
in
the carnage and it leavens the mix well. Joan's frustration in having so
many men killed and yet realizing the necessity for the violence is well
demonstrated in a scene where, after the battle a French soldier
grabs
a horrified English prisoner and is about to kill him for his teeth. The
French soldier's teeth are disgustingly
rotten. He tells Joan that these are part of the spoils of war. She stops
the act and removes a gold ring from her finger and gives it to the
Frenchman. Later on in the film, Dustin Hoffman in a brief role as Joan's
Conscience, debates with her the pros and cons of her acts and whether her
voices and visions were real or just what she wanted to
see.<br /><br />Other support roles also make their mark. John Malkovich is Charles VII of
France. He is at once, grateful for Joan's intervention, but treacherous
when her further campaigns do not suit him or his court.
Charles'
mother-in-law, Yolande D'Aragon, is portrayed by Faye Dunaway as another
self-serving member of the
royal house. Other leaders of Joan's army add fine color to the tapestry of
this story as it roars to is
unavoidable conclusion. The viewer's knowledge of the outcome has to
somewhat hurt as the film grinds
to a close. The trial is glossed over perfunctorily, and even the final
immolation is not given the dramatic power it could have had. The ideal film
version of Joan's journey from maid to saint may be in the future. However,
until that comes along, this one is not without its merits.

