2005_July 13 
I've always been a great fan of historic drama's, but the medieval
times are not really my favorite. Normally I prefer the period between
1900 and 1950 or the Roman / Greek times when I want to watch such a
movie. Only when I'm almost sure that the movie that I'm about to see,
and which isn't situated in one of these time periods, will be better
than average, I'm willing to give it a try. That's also the reason why
I saw &quot;The Messenger: The Story of Joan of Arc&quot;.<br /><br />When in 1412 a girl called Jeanne is born in a small village in France,
the Hundred Years war with England makes life very difficult. She grows
up as a very religious young woman who confesses several times a day
and at the age of 13, she has her first vision when she finds a sword
in a field. When she returns home with it, she finds the English
looting and murdering her town. Many years later, she is convinced that
it is her holy duty to be ridding France of the English. That's why in
1428 she meets Charles, the Dauphin of France, who is so desperate that
he accepts all help, even when it comes from a 16 year old maiden with
a divine mission. After she successfully liberated Orl&eacute;ans and Reims,
the Dauphin is crowned traditionally in the cathedral of Reims. From
that moment on he doesn't need her anymore, since his wishes are
satisfied, and after he betrays Jeanne d'Arc, she is imprisoned by the
Burgundians. They organize a trial against her under English law, but
can't force her to confess about her divine visions which she has had
continuously since childhood. Condemned of witchcraft and being
considered as a relapsed heretic, she is sentenced to death and is
burnt alive at only 19 years of age.<br /><br />The story is of course what it is. Because this is a movie that has
been based on a biography, which already exists for a few hundred
years, much can't go wrong. Only when the writers had added a lot of
new elements to it, which I don't think they have done, this could have
become a really awful movie. Now I had the feeling that they followed
the original story pretty well and that's why this has become a more
than decent movie. Sure, by today's standards this story isn't very
believable, but that's not what you should keep in mind when watching
it. If today someone would claim that she was sent by God to free us
from evil, she would end up in a straitjacket and a mental hospital
pretty soon, but all this happened in the 15th century, when people
were much more religious and still believed such claims.<br /><br />When it comes to the battle scenes, you can expect a lot of brutal
violence. A lot of dismemberment, people being hit by a large number of
arrows or cut into pieces with a sword,... you will not be spared of
anything of that. Personally I don't have any problem with it, because
that's the way it was at the time, but I'm sure that not everybody will
be able to look at it. But the entire movie isn't made up by such
scenes of course. The most remarkable ones are probably those in which
she has a vision. The way those were shot is really very nice and give
it that extra mysterious feeling. Also worth noticing are the nice
costumes and decors, which give a good impression of the time shown in
the movie.<br /><br />The direction and the performances by the actors are the last thing
that I want to tell you something about. I already knew that Luc Besson
knows what a good movie should look like, but an historic drama is
still something completely different from a Sci-Fi movie like &quot;The
Fifth Element&quot;, in which you can let your imagination run freely, or a
completely over-the-top comedy like &quot;Taxi&quot;. But what he did looked nice
and that's what's the most important. Of course he also had a nice cast
to work with. With people like Dustin Hoffman, Faye Dunaway and John
Malkovich he had some very famous and talented actors to his disposal.
But even the other actors, with Milla Jovovich on top, were much better
than average.<br /><br />In the end this is a movie that offered plenty of entertainment, nice
shots, a good story... and that's why I find the current rating of
6.3/10 too low. I would give it a rating of at least 7.5/10. In my
opinion it doesn't deserve any less.
