2002_May 20 

It is 1429, you are a disowned, disinherited son of dead French king.
You
have only a few months, few weeks, few days, few hours before you lose
everything.  All of this sad state of affairs brought to the French by the
invincible Henry V (Henry V had died about 10 years before the coming of
Joan) who had forced your father to renounce you and married your sister
(the offspring of such union would be the future king of both kingdoms).
Again, it is 1429, and the English is reducing France to another Scotland,
another Wales, another Ireland.  The English only have to cross the river
Loire into southern France, and France's existence as an independant
kingdom would be ended.  Only a lone French detachment at Orleans clings
tenaciously and stubbornly denying the English passage to south
France.
In comes a girl, who has come a long way from an area that had already
declared Henry VI (son of Henry V) the true king of France.  What would you
do?  Would you have had her executed?  Be truthful, most people would have.
This girl claims that she can save France.  Again, what would you
do?
It is a testament to the scheming, intriguing, and back-stabbing
mentality and brillance of mind possesed by Charles (future Charles VII)
that he saw and opportunity to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat.  It
goes without saying that French led by Joan, won at Orleans.
However, it was more than just a mere military victory.  It was a moral
victory.  Up to the this time, the English was always viewed as morally
superior to the decadent French.  Not after this.  After this, the English
were viewed as degenerate bastards, worse yet, stubborn fools. And it only
took one girl to do this.  Joan of Arc (should I say Charles VII working in
the shadows) undid in two years, nearly all that which had taken Henry V
over 10 years to accomplish.<br /><br />If Mr. Bresson had put more of a devilish, conniving character of Charles
VII into his movie, in addition to portraying the pompous, glory-seeking,
but intolerant and bigoted character of John, Duke of Bedford, it would
have
made his film more understandable and perhaps enjoyable.  But doing this
would mean changing the title of the movie to &quot;Charles VII, Savior of
France, also starring Joan of Arc&quot;, and would you have paid money to see
this?  Be truthful.  Plenty of people paid money to see the first Batman
movie, which should have been titled
&quot;The Joker also starring Batman&quot;.  Fiat Lux in Tenebris.
