<p>

Similar in idea to 'American Beauty' but certainly not in style or content
this bleak look at underground culture and the spiritual redemption it
brings is easily one of the most intelligent films I've ever seen. Directed
by the same man who brought us the superb 'The Game' this is another film
which you'll have to see more than once to truly understand.  Focusing on
sad white-collar, middle-class Norton whose only real dream in life is to
own all the contents of an IKEA catalogue it follows him through a chance
meeting with charismatic stranger Pitt and the unfortunate events which
conspire to draw them together. After a nights hard drinking they start a
friendly-ish scrap which is viewed by a couple of others and from that
small
acorn a mighty oak called Fight Club grows. This is the point around which
the whole film revolves with Norton and Pitt forming an underground club
which draws more and more disillusioned young men to join it. Based on firm
'Queensbury Rules' it is a cathartic if bloody way to spend your night.
Eventually as it becomes a huge operation Pitt, the de facto leader, moves
it up a gear and creates his own cult from this secret society. This is
where the film becomes brilliant and the twist near the end is magnificent,
better even than the much talked about 'The Sixth Sense'. It just has so
much to say about things: the emasculation of an entire generation of young
men (&quot;No great war to fight, no great depression&quot;), the growing isolation
we
all feel from one another and the need to find something to draw us back
together and most importantly, the power of an exciting, challenging idea
and it's fermentation into cultism. However, where many films would just
say
'This is a bad thing' 'Fight Club' doesn't. It is more a condemnation of a
materialistic society which has forgotten about a large section of itself.
You can empathise with these men completely, even when they band together
against this uncaring society that has reared them to be something their
instincts don't understand. It's as close to genius as you'll get and one
film you'll talk about and think about for days.
</p>