2002_December 30 

Our narrator is a white-collar worker who has his life to a point it could
be called normal.  His home is decked out in the pornography of IKEA
catalogues and he is professional.  However he is somehow dissatisfied with
his life as it is and drifts from various support groups faking disease just
to get love and emotional outlet.  A chance meeting on an airplane with soap
salesman Tyler Durden gives him pause and, when his flat is destroyed in an
explosion, he turns to Durden for help.  Together they begin to move into a
world that isn't commercially based, where pain helps them to feel more
alive.  Together they start a small group called Fight Club where men can
experience the thrill of a fight without the danger.  However the groups
grow rapidly and begin to carry out subversive activities at large.  When
confronted by our narrator, Durden disappears our narrator in charge of a
semi-cult group that is operating without his knowledge.<br /><br />I didn't get round to seeing this film until it came to TV in the UK
recently.  So over several years I had generally been told that it was a
`great movie&#153;' &#150; mostly by people who had HEARD it was a great movie rather
than those who had seen it.  So I expected greatness and was taken a little
aback by the fact that this wasn't a normal Hollywood film but something
much more worth while.  The reason I'm surprised that it ranks so highly and
did so well is that it requires concentration and thought.  The plot is
basically a comedy, making fun of us.  That's how I saw it &#150; that we are
like the narrator but we must accept that this is our lives to some extent,
to go to the other extreme is just as bad if not worse.  It is a very clever
story and it only dipped in quality at one point for me &#150; where the clubs
first begin to become something more sinister (more!) and move into
terrorism.<br /><br />Part of the reason it was so well watched is the stars but also the very
cool direction that made it stand out to the student generation as something
deep (even if they didn't get the film).  I think this ironic as they
haven't hit the stage of our narrator and can't fully relate.  However the
direction is praise worthy and Fincher was the best man for the job.  Full
of clever shots and great images the film is a joy to see.  The one flaw I
had was the sincerity of the film.  Many love it because it is
anti-capitalist in nature, making fun of IKEA-love etc.  The film is
preaching to us about this (and the other) extreme &#150; but most people
watching and making it will be living that exact life!  However this is
minor and it became less as the film went on and mocked both ends of the
scale.<br /><br />The stars do well and I wonder if they worried this would be too highbrow
and flop?  Norton is simply a great actor when given the material and he
delivers here.  Even with the more extreme actions (that aren't real) he
carries them off as convincing.  Pitt enjoys himself well in the joint lead
although his character is basically one dimensional (for obvious reasons). 
That said he is very strong and takes you with him as he gets more extreme. 
Carter is a weak link to me and I never really bought her character.  A
shame as she is quite central but it doesn't spoil it too much.  Support
cast are good, but putting a face like Meat Loaf in a very unusual role just
made him stand out and distract from the role.<br /><br />Overall this is an excellent movie.  Even if you don't get it, it is still
great fun to watch.  It is a brave story to try in a Hollywood film and it
is superbly directed, acted and told.  Some may rave about it too much but
it is well worth a look.  If only out of interest rather than to change your
life.
