2005_July 23 
What most people who have not yet seen this flic do know ...it has to
do with a men's club started by the 2 main characters whose members
beat each other up. Obviously, there is an inherently violent structure
to the film. The theme, on the surface, is that modern men have none of
the outlets of the past (war, survival, the hunt, etc.) on which to
test themselves, i.e. to vent their natural aggression. The result is a
nation full of frustrated human time-bombs, many ready to blindly
follow a charismatic leader (Pitt) into anarchy &amp; terrorism. Anarchy,
to be sure, is a troublesome subtext, but Director Fincher expands on
the groundwork laid out to pose a more complex dilemma: namely, that
our modern world of advertising and corporate suffusion may produce a
new breed of man - one who is halfway drawn into a surrealistic
dreamworld to escape the rigors of reality and who will eventually
strike back at the world which has affronted him - with apocalyptic
vigor. Fincher employs a few seldom-seen cinematic tricks to convey
this surrealistic vision, including brazen attempts at subliminal
imagery as a parody form - though most of the film turns out to be a
dark comedy, anyway, at odds with the serious nature of the story.
Somehow, it works. I'm also drawn to the film for repeat viewings due
to the unusual stylistics but am resistant, as well; this could be
because the subject matter is at odds with the style, producing a
confusing reaction in the viewer. There is also a surprise twist near
the end, which has been apparently a well-kept secret, since it took me
off-guard - and I'm the one who figured out &quot;The Sixth Sense&quot;(99)
halfway through.<br /><br />I'd like to veer off on a tangent I normally don't in my comments and
mention the video version of this film on the DVD. First of all, the
DVD of the film itself has 4 alternate audio commentary tracks - a
record - including by the Director, all the main actors, the
screenwriter &amp; novelist. There's a 2nd disc in the package which
details the evolution of the film with everything from promos to
behind-the-scenes FX tests. This is the DVD format used to its full
potential; by the time you're finished with it, you'll feel as if you
were part of the film's crew.
