1999_December 28 

There seems to be a great emphasis on how the film tries to rap
consumerism
and conformity. The really strange thing is how the film itself contains a
message of consumerism and conformity. At the end (without revealing
more),
the nihilistic Tyler is defeated but his goal is achieved. A typical happy
ending? Also, while the &quot;twist&quot; is a stunner, it's not unprecedented. To
say
more would be too revealing. It doesn't pack an emotional wallop like The
Sixth Sense or 12 monkeys; we just go,&quot;Oh that's what's going on...
without
providing any sense of ballast. And let's not forget that the Fight Club
seems to be a pseudo cult, and if there's anything that imposes rules and
conformity among its members, it's a cult.
The film's absolutely brilliant in its 1st hour but once &quot;the plan&quot; is
started, it gets too involved, resembling the X files conspiracy
complication.
However, kudos to the director for making such a cinematic film - all
kinds
of clever tricks employed, mixing surrealism so subtly that in the end, it
still seems like a wild dream. the settings are stunning and for once,
violence is shown to be ugly rather than glorified. The actors rise to the
challenge, though Norton's muscular physique somehow ruins the essential
contrast between him and Pitt. Bonham-Carter is OK but she doesn't get the
chance to showcase her acting skills - you have got to see her in The
Wings
of the Dove. And Pitt is the man we all want to be, and the dominatrix
side
of his character is irresistable. His pseudo-WWF costume is hilarious and
I
bet Tyler is just perfect for WWF.
In the end, that's the only thing wrong with the Fight Club. It feels like
a
WWF show, plenty of violence but essentially harmless and
stress-relieving,
as a form of therapy. It has a very stagey feel, losing any sense of
realism- the film's only death is treated comically. It's definitely not
the
best film of '99- my choices are either being john malkovich, which
doesn't
rely on a trick ending but constantly produces surprises, all about my
mother, which relies on characters throughout rather than flashy
techniques
or complicated plot, and a film that resembles the fight club in its
crusade
against conformity; American Beauty. Some scenes are similar; the
blackmailing of the boss and the &quot;who cares&quot; attitude but American Beauty
is
much more original and disconcerting because it hits harder and closer. It
revolves around the family rather than the individual and the
re-examination
of beauty in the final montage is the lovliest thing this summer. Thus The
Fight Club is the 4th best film for me.
