2000_April 26 

Ah, those six-pack abs! For those of you who have been begging to see Brad
Pitt at his toughest and grungiest, here's your movie! The film centers on a
semi-secret group whose members pummel each other senseless (and
senselessly) nightly in seedy basements. The club's leader, Tyler Durden, is
a charismatic, Zen-conscious, manipulative misanthrope - and those are just
some of his finer points. The film's protagonist, played by the talented
Edward Norton, is a hopeless office-boy schlep stuck in a depressing,
dead-end job, existing joylessly in a vanilla life that is supposed to
signify the everyday lives of us regular folk. <br /><br />The stark contrast in the two main characters is no accident, and we quickly
come to realize that the narrator lives through Tyler vicariously, even as
they both create Fight Club. What better way to learn about yourself and
your fellow man than by engaging in a bare-knuckled bout of fisticuffs?
Didn't these people ever hear of more conventional, less-painful methods
such as primal scream or aspirin? <br /><br />So what's the theme of this movie? Well, behind all the blood and guts, it's
about finding oneself. It's about deciding whether to live your life as an
ant performing the tasks of other ants or to live your life in ways that
only your imagination can show you. I think it's also something about
becoming a better person through violence, a theme we saw in A Clockwork
Orange, way back when.<br /><br />This is more than a mere fight movie, as its presumptuous theme indicates.
Amazingly, with as much attention paid to the violence, there's actually
room for a taut, creative script that's absolutely full of little nuggets of
intelligence. This is a movie that beats you over the head with one theme
(violence is good when used for self-improvement) while simultaneously
sneaking in another, more clever theme. It's also got a fantastic twist
right near the end, and if you see it coming - please shut up! The twist is
reminiscent of another, even more popular movie (if I tell you which movie,
then you'll more easily guess the secret), and if you're not looking for it
- that is, if you're one of those who lets things happen in a movie, who
doesn't try to guess each scene before it happens - you'll be shocked right
out of your recliner. I finished watching this movie about half an hour ago,
and I still feel a little uneasy - it can make that kind of impact on
you.
