2000_February 14 

Fight Club is the type of move that jumps up and screams &quot;I'm a good
movie.&quot;
It offers so many good ideas and so many cinematic elements that it
creates
one heck of a wild ride.  It is a film that reveals the plot pieces so
delicately that you have to care about what's happening.<br /><br />Fight Club is a thoughtful movie that thinks it could work best as a
thriller disguised as an intellectual movie.  The ideas are used to
distract
the viewer from trying to understand the underlying plot details.  The
ending is a bit of a stretch...to say the least.  The somewhat bizarre
chemistry between the two leads ends up slapping the viewer in the face.
This is a good thing, however, but it is very difficult in determining if
this has anything to do with the ideas.  Perhaps there are some underlying
thoughts to this deception, but I thought it was a bit of a distraction
from
determining why the movie was made.<br /><br />There are certain thoughts I thought were very valuable in determining the
purpose of the movie.  When Tyler gives the Fight Club members an
assignment
to get in a fight with an ordinary person and lose, the Norton character
says, &quot;This is not as easy as you think, because most ordinary, normal
people would do anything possible to avoid being in a fight.&quot;  There is a
breath of relief in this statement, and it says that most people are not
the
people in Fight Club.  However, the knowledge that there are enough people
that could cause a terrible revolution is terribly frightening.  The best
part of this idea is the culminating scene between Norton and his boss
that
turns out to be the most humorous and just downright worthwhile scenes of
the past year.<br /><br />Many people have said that Fight Club is corrupting our youth, and, yes,
there has been a new upheaval of violent fight clubs spawning throughout
the
country since the movie's release.  Whether it has something to do with
the
movie, I have no idea.  I think we've been building up to it, through the
violence our children see through movies, news, and on shows that present
violent and aggressive characters as role models, like WWF and WCW
wrestling.  Perhaps Fight Club is more of a warning than an attempt to
cause
trouble.  The authors have a somewhat resentment to the societal factors
that deprive humans of obeying their nature.  It is a call out to say that
perhaps our image of the &quot;perfect society&quot; is not attainable.  Deprive
people of what comes natural, and there will be a nasty, unhealthy
revolution.  This can be used as a metaphor to the movie industry itself.
After a prohibition by a board of ethics in the late '30s decided what
would
be appropriate to show in the movies, movie makers were angered for not
being able to show their entire artistic vision.  As time went by,
filmmakers became so fed up with these restrictions that they started
breaking and bending the rules wherever they could, without realizing the
ethical consequences.  The moviegoers went to see these movies because
they
had never been able to see them.  No one really cared about what the
negative repercussions would be from showing these movies, or whether
these
movies would make the world more perverted or violent.  So now, we have
Fight Club, a movie that is about the negative backlashes drawn from a
deprivation of human nature, presented in a form that tries to break from
the restrictions of film.  The movie is overly violent, but I think that
is
part of the point.  I don't think it criticizes the violence it portrays
because it allows us to understand the thinking behind the violence.
Instead, it exists on screen to wake the viewer up, and say &quot;This is what
society is becoming.  Is this what we want?  Are our solutions ever likely
of determining the goals?&quot;  Fight club is definitely against restrictions,
and that is apparent both in the plot of the movie and the actual
existence
of the movie itself.<br /><br />The main criticisms I have against this movie deal with the fact that the
blend of cinema and ideas don't seem to quite come together in any
cohesive
fashion.  The cinema distracts from the ideas while the ideas are used as
a
distraction for the cinema.  These are minor complaints, though, as there
are so many valuable gifts from examining both of the film's elements.  My
rating: 9/10
