2000_February 17 
...and films like that are extremely rare.  &quot;Fight Club&quot; is pure
genius, it
represents everything &quot;we (society, not me personally) despise; which is
exactly what it
asks for and deserves. If &quot;A Clockwork Orange&quot; is considered
a
masterpiece against violence in movies by some, and a mere
piece of trash by others, then &quot;Fight Club&quot; is just pure education at it's
best. Tyler Durden is the prophet of our times, whether it be spiritually
or
physically or mentally. If you don't agree than refer to lines 16-18 of
this
review. This film is excellent. It creates an environment which is only
appreciated by those who appreciate it. If that sounds ignorant, for
example: The trailer, by giving the impression of pure and utter violence,
breaks through the scarred psyche of a TRULY intelligent person, sparking
an
interest; While it keeps the hypocrites and &quot;fashion drones&quot; of our
society
away. While the intelligent people ,i.e. the people who are smart enough
to
look into it, go and see the film and realize it's intellectual
significance; the hypocrites and drones mock and criticize it's threat to
our external culture of &quot;love&quot; and a so-called religious renaissance. Ha!.
&quot;Fight Club&quot; repels the people IT criticizes, who are continuously looking
for insight and &quot;wisdom&quot; on the latest trends in fashion and music, and
draws the people who are continuously looking for insight and wisdom that
truly applies to us. I am extremely happy that it didn't get recognized at
the Oscars because the Oscars are voted on by society.  Whether it be
public
society or private society, I'm sad to admit, the Academy has changed.
The
Academy has definitely changed for the worse(as proven by the last three
years).  &quot;Fight Club&quot; IS what it is. It is not TRL, it is not Gap, it is
not
the GOP, it is not Volkswagen, it
is not Fubu, it is not Macintosh, it is not Juvenile (yes everyone's fav
rapper, oooh), it is not Old Navy, it is not *NSYNC, it is not the
Backstreet Boys, it is not the Academy Awards, IT IS NOT Pop Culture...&quot;I
reject the basic assumption of modern society, especially the importance
of
material possessions!&quot; Simply put Tyler.

