2008_February 12 
It is nice to have all the material accoutrement of a thriving,
cosmopolitan guinea pig. You are raptured by consumerism, which
includes owning several hundred pounds of Scandinavian furniture.You
have a precocious infatuation for a white collar title, and your
lackluster, extra curricular activities have dictated that you
mollycoddle someone with testicular cancer!! As enticing as all of this
sounds, you know what sparks your interest even more, BEATING THE CRAP
OUT OF SOMEONE!! (I have been underemployed for over eight years now, I
am all ears!!) What do you really want out of life? Recognition at the
Neanderthal level, or, to be another citified anonymity? The former, of
course!! Brad Pitt conveys his message to Edward Norton very
convincingly, and now, the trick is to spread the good news, but,
remember rules one and two, you are not allowed to talk about it, and,
you are not allowed to talk about it!! How do you persevere under such
a deranged set of circumstances? Yes!! Boredom constitutes a first rate
felony. Fighting to a near death represents an exuberance that has
titillated Edward Norton&#x27;s character to a personal Nirvana!!
Dangerously convoluted logic is the ultimate spirituality. You have
experienced excruciating chemical pain, someone torched your condo
because they want to get to know you a little better, you got fired
because you always have blood stains on your clothes, you want to blow
up a credit card centralized information building complex, and sex has
not been this sensational since seventh grade!! Nobody said that this
was a family oriented film!! The aggregate depravity for all of the
characters in the movie transcends a diversified experimentation with
needless destruction, their devotion to the non-conventional is a
little too difficult to comprehend!! What does anybody really
accomplish by going this route anyway? Capitualation to the bizarre?
This movie&#x27;s charades of insurrection are exhilarating to the
clinically demented (Otherwise known as the fight club) The less I
know, the better off I will be I think!! Banalities pertinent to the
Bourgeousie have brazenly threatened this bevy of belligerent overgrown
boys who wish to brandish their high levels of testosterone... So Now!!
Life is one big boxing ring!! This is a potpourri of apocalyptic
misgivings which are socially perverse!! How do you empathize with any
of this?... You don&#x27;t!! This website has ranked this movie the 31st
best film out of the top 250 ever made.... To concur with these
findings would be tantamount to indulging the character that Brad Pitt
played, to the nth degree!! The psychopathic rumination involved in all
of these felonious antics are even more repugnant than the eating
habits of an alpaca!!! It is truly indicative of human nature to favor
the form of fruition which is pecuniary, their form of fruition deals
with societal malcontent and mutilation!! The resonating agitation,
which serves as an inspiration to everyone in this movie, is
commensurate with the film &#x22;Clockwork Orange&#x22;!!! Both films possess a
ruthless determination to establish an adamant,counter-culture
militancy with a bunch of immature misfits!! The macabre actions to
both of these movies signify a heinous non-justification which is
pertinent to everything!!! This is not what the phrase &#x22;Change your
sedentary lifestyle&#x22; means!!! There are other recreational diversions
out there, maybe golf can fill the void!! As far as unprecedented
creativity goes &#x22;Fight Club&#x22; gets a resoundingly perfect ten!!!
Overall, however, for &#x22;Fight Club&#x22; to be ranked the 31st best movie
ever produced, I don&#x27;t know, I really just do not know about that one
at all!!
