2002_June 11 

Fight Club is most likely the most disturbing and unforgettable movie
experience of the 90's (yes, even more than American Beauty). What's the
most horrifying aspect of this film? I suppose that would be the fact that
it is sadly and morbidly true. It expresses -- in the darkest possible way
-- the glorification of cynicism, false moralities, and love of possession
in our society. And it is this awful truth that created the huge controversy
over the subject matter of Fight Club. At first glance, it might be confused
for a &quot;teen flick&quot; about a bunch of guys that beat each other up to express
their anger against society: this is the most inaccurate assumption one can
make about Fight Club. The film is REALLY about a man that descends into an
anti-social darkness and then searches desperately for a way out, unaware of
how terrible his actions towards those around him have been (that's really
the only way to describe it without giving away any surprises). It's sort of
a remake of The Godfather that speaks to generation X (don't feel as if I am
comparing it to this classic; I'm just drawing similarities). So what do I
think about this movie? Well, I believe it is a very provocative and daring
exploration of our modern world, and along the way it expresses deep
philosophies that require tremendous pondering. Do I agree with EVERY
philosophy it poses? No. Do I think it's a good movie? Absolutely! The
acting is, well, awesome! Brad Pitt appears to not only be a teen idol, but
also a very talented actor that seems to pick very good movies (sort of a
Tom Cruise that can actually act). Edward Norton is perfect for the role of
&quot;the narrator&quot;/Rupert, and Helena Bonham Carter does an impressive job as
the dazed and drugged-up Marla. The chemistry between these three lead
characters is perfect, and the dialogue just sparks with wit and humor. In
fact, the entire script is chock-full of clever twists and turns! David
Fincher proves himself -- again -- to be a simply brilliant director,
crafting what is -- in my opinion -- his second best film (I still think
Se7en is his ultimate masterpiece). The only thing that really bothered me
about Fight Club was the constant use of gratuitous violence, language, and
sex. Sometimes it's necessary, but most of the time it's for the mere
purpose of attracting a bigger audience. For example, the &quot;love&quot;
relationship between Marla and Tyler. What was that all about? If you watch
the film a second time, I think you'll notice that their sexual relations
served no ultimate purpose and that several of the scenes were pointlessly
explicit and graphic. But these are just minor flaws, and they don't
subtract from the quality of the movie. Another positive aspect about Fight
Club is the soundtrack; I am not a particularly big fan of The Dust
Brothers, but I did enjoy their work on the score for this movie. The
hard-rock/pop/techno rhythms are sublime and subtle, fitting in perfectly
with the over-all tone. As a matter of fact, I highly recommend the
soundtrack CD which -- although lacking the cool ending song by The Pixies,
&quot;Where is my Mind?&quot; -- is also superb. Fight Club is NOT a movie for
everyone, though: the [extremely] black humor and -- at times -- very
graphic violence might discourage you from watching it, but if you do, I
think you'll be rather impressed. And a note to David Fincher: keep the good
work up!<br /><br />Overall rating: 9/10
