2001_January 3 

Over along enough time period, the possibility rate of a really good movie
coming along drops to zero. But every now and then, there is a film that
gives the world a great big sweaty slap in the face and says, &quot;Hey, this
is
the way thing really are.&quot;
Fight Club has proven to be one of those films. David Fincher once again
has
presented us with a flick that forces us to ask, &quot;What if?&quot; The scary part
is that it is all possible. There might really be a Jack out there who
takes
part in a lot of anarchical acts, but imagines that it is someone else who
is
doing it. Schizophrenia, multiple personalities, etc. These things really
do
exist.
But enough about psychology, on with the film. Brad Pitt employs a
performance that is not at all surprisingly fantastic. His acting style
proves once again that he is a method actor, different in every film whose
credits bear his name. The character of Tyler, however, is not one that I
would have expected Brad to play, but it seemed to be made for Brad and
only
Brad. His lines are not entirely funny, but he makes them hilarious.
Though
his character is generally serious, there is a humor in him and Brad
displays that fantastically.
The real performer in this film, I think, is Edward Norton. His role is
also
much different from his usual (Let's not forget &quot;American History X&quot;.)
Norton made me believe in his character. I, too, suffer from insomnia, as
do
a lot of people. Jack could be any of us. I think Norton tried very hard
to
make us feel like his character WAS all of us, all of the crappy parts of
our lives rolled into one. The character of Jack changed throughout the
movie, as he was supposed to, and Norton performed this change
perfectly.
Fincher remains somewhere at the top of my &quot;Favorite Directors&quot; list, and
his films are some of my favorites, &quot;Seven&quot; and &quot;The Game&quot; included.
&quot;Fight
Club is a film that will remain in the minds of those who have seen it,
especially the ones who did not like it.
