2000_July 8 

I'll admit that after watching 'Fight Club' I felt disturbed. Deeply
disturbed in fact. I felt like my brain had just engaged in its own
personal
fight club and had emerged in a battered state. Does this mean that 'Fight
Club' is a good movie? Not necessarily, although it does feature some fine
acting and a great soundtrack.<br /><br />Taking a very obvious cue from A Clockwork Orange, Fight Club aims to
reshape our conventional views on modern day, capitalist society. While it
is successful in showing how dull and lifeless society has become, the end
results are mostly of a superficial nature. Seeing two men pummel each
other
relentlessly is indeed disturbing, as is the movie's cinematography, which
includes many stop action sequences and extreme close-ups of faces beaten
beyond recognition. However, the questions spawned
here are mostly shallow and repetitive, questions such as 'Why do we live
in
such a consumer-based society that cares only for appearances and glosses
over our basic animalistic nature?' However, thought-provoking this might
be, it's been asked before and more effectively as well. A Clockwork Orange
was more selective and discreet in trying to shock the viewer and in fact,
most of the violence and depravity was left to the viewer's imagination.
Fight Club, on the other hand, follows the distinctly American trend of
leaving nothing to the imagination, lest the audience miss the point
director David Fincher is trying to make. Pandering to the lowest common
denominator is a far too common occurrence in today's Hollywood, whether
it's manipulative melodrama such as Magnolia or the not-so-subtle religious
commentary of Dogma.  Kubrick's masterpiece and more contemporary pieces
such as Mike Leigh's Naked offer far more thought-provoking commentaries on
the human condition, with the viewer holding as much responsibility as the
director for figuring out what the problem is and how to solve it.<br /><br />What does separate Fight Club from the rest of the Hollywood scrap heap is
an opening 30 minute sequence involving different therapy groups (hilarious
and gutting at the same time) and some exemplary acting. Edward Norton
plays
the part of the business drone at the perfect pitch and pace, allowing his
hidden mean streak to slowly but surely emerge to the surface. As for Brad
Pitt, well he manages the near-impossible task of making us forget about
his
Joe Black alter-ego. Hopefully, there will be no more Legends of the Fall
or
Seven Years in Tibet for us to suffer through. However, both the riveting
opening act and the strength of the acting are soon lost in an orgy of
violence that quickly distills any point that Fincher is trying to make.
Also, it has become a bit passe to see movies where the inevitable 'twist'
at the end calls into question our assumptions about what has transpired
and
how reliable the narrator may or may not be. Ever since Kaiser Soze came
out
of the closet, scores of films have been scrambling to repeat the formula
with increasingly diminishing returns.<br /><br />In this day of absurdly high movie ticket prices, Fight Club certainly has
enough 'bang for the buck' to satisfy most viewers. Yet few people will
leave this movie feeling any more enlightened than they did prior to
watching it.  Most will return to their 9-to-5s and leave the fighting for
the weekend.

