2000_February 25 

Any film of Fight Club's nature is, essentially, best judged not for any
moral perspective that it offers, but rather for the degree to which it
leads its audience to debate whether any such perspective *is* offered;
with
this in mind, Fight Club is a successful effort - because, rather than in
spite, of its many self-contradictions.  In the duality of the
glorification
and criticism of the cult of violence that is its most obvious device, the
movie presents a number of different elements in juxtaposition, and is the
richer for doing so.  Rather than adopt overly simplistic, black-and-white
arguments, Fight Club presents many sides to its numerous coins, so that
we
are never sure who is deemed the &quot;villain&quot; and who the &quot;hero&quot;, nor even
the
anti-hero.  The plot twist towards the end of the movie is the realisation
of this aim, taken to extremes - rather silly extremes, admittedly, but it
gets away with it.. just.  We're given a portrayal of the conventional and
the unconventional; of good and evil - but one where the respective labels
are shifted and reevaluated at every turn, in a somewhat dizzying and
rather
confusing method.  That the film's ultimate message is confusing, though,
is
by no means a criticism - Fight Club is most powerful in exploring and
exploiting the inherent contradictions and ambiguities of everyday life.
Where some reviewers have chosen to stick to one particular reading of a
central &quot;message&quot;, doing so is self-deceiving.  It should be understood
that
this is a tale of self-fulfillment, of coming to understand oneself, of
extremes and extreme repercussions.  Arguably, things get a little *too*
extreme in this movie, and the film's conceit is rather tenuous;
nonetheless, it remains the perfect tool for evaluating the
split-personality of both ourselves and of our culture.  We are lead on an
intriguing, exciting and at times rather terrifying ride that, somewhat
surprisingly, is most potent when the direction cuts back a little from
its
reliance on fetishizing violence, revealing an intelligent, almost
kafkaesque core.<br /><br />Stylistically, the movie is sometimes a little overly pretentious and
self-referential: the &quot;subtly&quot; inserted frames (reflecting the plot) are
jarring and rather smug, while the violence is, as mentioned above,
sometimes needlessly excessive to the extent that it steals the limelight.
Nonetheless, this is a movie filled with clever jokes on society (as with
the soap) and interesting turns, although the trist comes both too late
and
too early, leaving an uncomfortable amount of time in which to wrap
everything up.  Ultimately, the films successes are also its failures,
insomuch as it is a little too subtle for its own good, at times, and a
little too unsubtle for its own good at others.  It is the eternal doom of
any similarly intricate film that it will be both under- and
over-analyzed;
perhaps I'm guilty of the latter, here, but as with other Fincher
directions
this is a movie that grows in scope the more it is interpreted, for better
or for worse.  It is interesting to read other reviewers' comments that
suggest that the Norton character &quot;won&quot; over Tyler Durdon in the end; my
own
interpretation was the reverse - this was Videodrome, not The Exorcist.
Either reading, though, is valid - and, in a sense, the two can exist
simultaneously.  It is precisely this ambiguity that is the movie's
&quot;message&quot; and its measure.
