2000_September 7 

In a year dominated by The Matrix and American Beauty, Fight Club seemed
to slip by with little attention paid to any aspect than it's much
over-hyped violence. However past all that non-sense is movie that is
simply
the one of most daring, challenging, original, smart and MEANINGFUL  movies
to come out of Hollywood in ages.
When I saw the first brief trailer for Fight Club at the opening of Star
Wars Episode 1, I heard several in the audience remark audibly comments
like, &quot;Aw, this is gonna be stupid.&quot; I was inclined to agree. The trailer
made it look like a convention underground fighting club movie like
Bloodsport. Having little interest for typical action movies, I didn't
think
much of it. However, a friend and I decided to see it anyways on a larth.
How wrong I was to assume that this was going to be a simple action movie!
Instead of seeing 90 minutes of kung-fu, I saw one of the most intelligent
movies I had seen.
Fight Club tells the story of a nameless narrator(Edward Norton.) The
Narrator lives out the advertising dream, attempting to find solace in
material possessions and status symbols, defining himself by what he owns.
Yet he feels trapped and unfulfilled in this mass-media approved neo-yuppie
work-a-day life. His only relief comes from a series of support clubs he
crashes. This is where Tyler Durden(Brad Pitt) comes in. I'll say little
more. This is just the set-up. I don't want to ruin the plot for the first
time viewer. In fact, the less said, the better.
Simply put, Fight Club has a lot to say about a lot of subjects like the
media, consumerism, sexual politics, self definition and most of all
freedom. And yet, so many critics seemed to NOT GET IT! Instead of seeing
the true points of the movie, critics decried it's violence and what was
seen as Fascism. It DOES NOT advocate violence. It simply doesn't outright
criticize it. And to those who say it is Fascist, I say you don't
understand
what fascism really is. I believe the negative reviews stemmed from two
things: 1)People not getting it and 2)How UNCOMFORTABLE Fight Club can make
people feel as it points major fault with our society that many of us
blindly buy into. Guess what?! Any good social criticism is
uncomfortable!!!!!
Fight Club is in the league with films like A Clockwork Orange(Yes, you
little Kubrick purists, I dare to compare them) and Blade Runner. Not truly
valued or understood in its time, it will become a film classic and
required
watching in college dorms of the future. Meanwhile, the pedestrian piece of
fluff that is American Beauty (Not to knock Kevin Spacey. He's great.) will
sink into obscurity. In closing, no amount of review of this movie is
enough
to cover this movie without ruining it. See it for yourself. See what you
can get out of it. If you have an open mind, you'll be pleasantly
surprised.

