2000_January 16 

This one is sick. I had hoped and prayed I would not live to see another
film as bad as the Matrix but Fight Club is. In a way it is even worse since
it is not as obviously silly. The actors can really play the directing is as
good as could be expected by someone like Fincher (I loved Se7en). So what
is wrong? Well, it is sick. Now, that is not a smart thing to say when
criticising  a film but there is no way to avoid it. Fight Club is extremely
violent. This is something I do not like in general but for a movie with a
title like Fight Club to be expected. And it is not senseless violence like
in Matrix but belonging to the story. Indeed it is the essence and in this
sense acceptable. What is wrong, if not evil, is that it is presented as a
possible solution to the emptiness we feel in our lives. So our generation
did not enjoy the blessing of an honest good war? No wonder we degenerate
and start buying IKEA furniture. Is this a joke? It is not meant as one.<br /><br />Our hero (the `Narrator') cannot sleep. He is not really happy but who is.
What to do? First he finds some unusual hobby. He goes to meetings of people
who really suffer.  And the mixture of real feelings mixed with the
ridiculous situation gives him energy some fake `sense of
life'.
There he meets the beautiful Marla. My heart jumped with joy. There was some
kindred spirit. They should fall in love, marry, settle down, have some kids
live happily (more or less) ever after. That is what I want (I know I am the
one who is sick but this is what watching classic Hollywood movies did to
me.) It would have been perfect. Unfortunately the film would have been over
after fifteen minutes.
That is why our hero first has to go to point zero. And he does it by
establishing this Fight Club and moving in with lovely Brad. Okay, why not.
But does it have to be terror organisation next? Come on. What is the point
of the whole thing?
You enjoyed the film? Punch yourself on the nose and start thinking. Or even
better stop pretending that you do. <br /><br />The schizophrenia angle was rather foreseeable but the happy ending was
okay. Like I said... the two hours in between where at best annoying at
worst... (I will think of something.)
