2004_October 7 

To give a 10 to a film is something that should be done for more than
just a few reasons. Thus, I don't give a 10 to just any movie I happen
to like. But Fight Club has everything that a ten must have. It has a
message, an intricate plot, characterization, depth, and watchability.
The messages are many and mostly come in the form of social satire and
broadly philosophical questions. The most flamboyant message that fuels
the movie is &quot;how much can you know about yourself if you've never been
in a fight?&quot;. This question does not ask the question it at first seems
to. The question really is, &quot;if you've never been in a spiritual
conflict, if you've never had to stand up and defend your life and your
beliefs, how can you really know anything about yourself?&quot;. This is
akin to Plato's claim that the unexamined life is hardly worth living.
Intertwined with Taoistic and Marxist based chantings and
existentialist background, the various voices of Fight Club do not make
it easy for the viewer to see the message. Some claim it's Nihilistic,
some claim it's Naizist propaganda, some claim it's a totalitarian
supporting film. I see it as none of these. In the same way that people
labeled Nietzsche with these terms (and incorrectly, I would argue),
so have they done to Fight Club. <br /><br />Another reason this film is a ten is because of its depth and reviewing
value. A movie that has depth can be rewatched. And with every viewing,
even by the most strict viewer, something new is discovered. This is
true for Fight Club. I have seen this movie over 100 times, watching it
on almost a daily basis when it first came out on DVD. Even when I
could recite whole chunks of the movie accurately, I was still watching
the end credits having discovered a new dimension in the film. Whether
it's a subtle piece of acting or a device of symbolism that was subtely
placed in the many layers of the film, there is something discovered in
every viewing that adds to the movie's strength. This strength is total
and full. There are no weak points to the film. From the acting to the
cinematography, from the symbolism to the plot twists, and from the
writing to the repetition of keywords, there is a full and vibrant
connection that gives every single part of the film purpose.<br /><br />A film like this is something that creates a new kind of film. It takes
the concept of a dark comedy and makes it something that has meaning
and structure. It has revived satire, as certain works in each
generation do, to apply the old messages to the new situation in which
we find ourselves. If there was one thing that I took away from this
movie, it is this: we are not made unique or special, we are not
ordained with purpose to strive for. We are only human when we make
oursleves more than just the slowly decomposing bodies that we are.
Paint a self-portrait, build a house, make a mark that will help
mankind evolve.

