2000_March 27 

In a commercialized society where condiments are expensive, electric razors
are mistaken for sexual objects, and where men grow abnormal breasts due to
testicular cancer chemotherapy, some members of society can't help but feel
alienated. You've got everything. A college degree, a good job with a major
company, a luxurious apartment, nice furnishings, an expensive wardrobe, and
a mail order catalog, you've got everything to fit the puzzle as a normal
human being. But what if you didn't feel normal? What if you felt so crushed
by the corporations of America that have literally consumed society with
their Decaf Latte, Soda endorsed, motor vehicle comeback, video store chain
feeling methods. Fight Club is a film that makes us look at a society that
we have seem to forgotten. Where money is no longer currency but is a power
and those who yield it invade. Fight Club is a throwback to all the old
seventies films like Rollerball in which America is ruled by corporations
instead of people, it's like Soylent Green where one corporation controls
half the world's food supply, it's like Logan's Run where someone decides
how long you'll live. You live in your 9-5 daily grind every weekday of
every week of every month of every year of every decade of your life without
realizing the fact that it is making you dead on the inside. You've become
something you've forgotten. You live in a world where you don't control
money but it controls you. You live in a world where your boss wears blue
ties on blue tie day. You aren't an athlete, a movie star, a rock star, or a
supermodel. You're an undignified product of the system. You're become a
packaged slave to the world that looks at you as a drone. You've been
brainwashed by a world where morals don't exist because they've been
replaced by the rules of the corporation. This is without a doubt, one of
the best films I have ever seen because it chooses to be something we're
afraid to face. Edward Norton continues his DeNiro in waiting acting style
alongside Brad Pitt who completely throws his leading man status out the
window and eschews his pretty boy personality to play a seriously evil and
twisted nihilist. Helena Bonham Carter proves she doesn't have to do JUST
period dramas with her edgy role as Marla, a nursery home meal stealing,
over the counter drug overdosing, laundrymat clothes stealing, chain
smoking, support group meeting attending loser. The epitome of white trash
in bad clothes. Fight Club is a film that is daring and
dangerous.
