2000_June 9 

Much has been said of Fight Club.  It has been called anything from
revolutionary to pornographic to juvenile self-indulgence.  Some have
called
it a modern classic, while others call it a piece of trash.  Is it a great
film?  I am not a film critic and cannot say, but I did enjoy watching the
film.<br /><br />What I think many have missed is the statement the film makes (either
intentionally or unintentionally) about the moral and spiritual status of
modern society.  Depicted in the film is a society without a higher sense
of
itself, a society without faith.  Throughout the film the people depicted
are struggling to validate themselves, to discover a purpose in their
lives.
These people, however, are unable to see beyond the culture of
materialism
in which they live; a culture that is defined, not by spirituality, but by
catalogs, creditors, and corporations.  What they are left with is
hopelessness, feelings of loss of control, and ultimately
despair.<br /><br />In situations such as these in which despair prevails, people tend to
react
with violence and destruction, either directed inward to the self or
outward
to the environment that they believe to have failed them.  Fight Club
demonstrates both of these.  In the actual fights, these poor bastards are
so full of despair that they value having someone beat them to a pulp
because in that way they have shared their pain and become less isolated.
In the acts of juvenile property destruction and outright terrorism we see
these same people striking out at the cultural icons they believe to have
controlled and deceived them.  Either way, we are given a glimpse at the
final stages of despair where destruction is viewed as more positive and
uplifting than growth.<br /><br />Ultimately, I believe Fight Club offers a valid picture of our current
society, a society that lacks spirituality and provides ample opportunity
for people to despair.  All it takes is a quick look at the news to see
much
of what was in the film; purposeless violence, wanton acts of destruction,
suicide. Take a close look at Columbine and I think you will see what I
mean.
