2005_October 25 
I write this review because today I saw that Fight Club was named the
4th best movie of all time in a poll done by a British magazine ( the
magazine wasn't named in the AP report). And this led me to question.
How good is Fight Club? Seeing as how by now there has been several
standard reviews of this movie I need not go into what the plot is or
how superb the acting, directing, or scriptwriting was, but I think
this recent poll and all the internet clamor surrounding this movie
leads me to ask another question. Why has Fight Club become such a
watershed movie? <br /><br />Fight Club has the interesting distinction of being both underrated and
overrated. When it came out it was largely underrated, which is odd
since it came under a cloud of criticism for its violent subject matter
and it starred two of the biggest Hollywood Stars then as well as now.
But this movie really only hit critical mass until it went to Video and
DVD. Fight Club found its fan base amongst a lot of adolescent men who
pretty much dug the concepts being thrown around. It was philosophical
without being over anyone's head, and it was intelligent without being
hard to digest. In short it was exactly what it rails against: a
perfectly portioned package. It is and was a seminal movie that not
only struck a chord with a generation of people, but also managed to be
damn funny.<br /><br />Fight Club is a great movie, but I do believe it has become a victim of
its own success. Now people who watch this movie claim to inhabit it
and literally worship the precepts espoused by it, ultimately, missing
the whole point of the movie, which is the pursuit of honesty at all
cost isn't enough of a sacrifice to truly be free. In the end you're
just going to have eat a little crap. If you become obsessed with the
fakeness of the world you are just as guilty of making it your master.
But of course that interpretation as with others is completely
subjective. I wish people could just watch this film and marvel at the
story structure and laugh at the humor, because anything else is taking
this movie entirely too seriously. And for the record Fight Club might
deserve to be in the Top 100, but number 4 all time is pushing it!
