2012_March 22 
If you love action movies then this is right up your alley. On top of
that, this film incorporates a very deep plot, combined with a shallow
yet satisfactory form of humor. Besised the brilliant acting
performances by Pitt &#x26; Norton, it had a really down-to-earth vibe about
it...almost like you could see yourself in the main characters shoes.
My favorite quality about this film is the wickedly unexpected twist at
the end...absolutely awesome to say the least! It made the movie into
something totally different and shed light on dim questions one may
have had during the movie up until the final scenes of it. Whoever
thought this plot line out did a good job. Not too mention they did a
remarkable job of blending action,suspense, and a little bit of drama
and comedy into the masterpiece entitled Fight Club. I think I&#x27;ve seen
it 4-5 times and I&#x27;ve yet to get bored of it: it seems like you notice
something new about it each time you watch it. Most of all I love the
fact that everything seems to be quite dysfunctional for these
characters in this movie, however, instead of moaning and groaning
about it, they instead do something about it the only way they know how
and fight back against the norm of society and stereotypes of society.
Good for them. They may not have used the standard, conventional,
by-the-book way of getting things accomplished, but nonetheless, it
worked...well, I might add. But without giving too much information
about the finality of the film, I will say this: up until the last 10
minutes or so, the viewer thinks one thing and one thing alone. But as
the ending plays out it sheds a TOTALLY different life about every
single aspect of the movie. Really was a classic and ground-breaking
finish. This is a must see in my humble opinion. Enjoy the masterpiece,
it is delightful and very different than one may originally expect.
Kudos to the individuals who directed, produced, wrote, and had
anything else to do with the production of this film. It is indeed an
ageless classic.
