2002_August 2 

Fight Club is a supreme movie, but you should be forewarned that it does
not
necessarily retain the same mood throughout the film.  It starts out as a
fun, sexy movie.  You have Edward Norton, playing the quirky narrator we
all
can sympathize with, paranoid but practical.  Then there's Brad Pitt,
playing the ultra smooth, yet offbeat Tyler Derden, who keeps us guessing
in
every scene.  And of course, the girl- Helena Bonham Carter excellently
portrays Marla Singer, a woman with sincere issues, but a soft side as
well.
If you came to see Brad Pitt, or if you came to see a flashy typical
Hollywood blockbuster, the beginning of the movie is the part you'll
like.
However, as the plot thickens, the movie takes an entirely different shape.
Fight Club and Project Mayhem are surrounded by cleverly written, deeply
thought out themes and philosophies.  A statement about consumerism, the
role of men in a maternal society, and humanity in general is brilliantly
made.  However, this is not without a large dose of strangeness, and a
plethora of disturbing imagery definitely not recommended for those who
came
just to see Brad Pitt strut his stuff.  This is where the true writing
genius shines through, and where the movie gets (I believe) it's large fan
base.
Finally, we get to the infamous twist, and surrounding mayhem leading up to
and coming down from it.  Both Norton and Pitt do some of their best acting
here, and as the narrator's world becomes severely distorted, some of the
most poignant observations are made.  Both actors are incredibly true to
their characters, and Carter makes an excellent final appearance as
well.
In short, this movie does many things at once.  It creates a world beyond
the imaginations of most, puts out a compelling social statement, and
delves
into the lives of very complex characters; while at the same time putting
up
an excellent cast and wonderful production work.  Though not for the feint
of heart, and laced with some inherent problems and loose ends, I highly
recommend this movie. 
