2005_July 27 
Basic Rundown of My Score-<br /><br />Sound-8 Visuals-7.5 Plot-7.5 Acting-7.5<br /><br />Score-7.5<br /><br />Let me start out by saying Fight Club is neither completely about
fighting or Brad Pitt. Keep in mind that this is more of a movie about
Norton's character, the Narrator, and his discontentment with an
every-day middle-class American lifestyle. Not only does Norton play
this character with skill, he provides a mindset most everyone can
relate too. The basic plot line in Fight Club (as basic as I can make
it) is about a discontented office worker (Norton) who, through strange
coincidence, meets Tyler Durden (Pitt), a reckless soap salesman with a
strange fascination for explosives and street fights. Norton finds an
almost religious escape with the fights, and soon they gather a large
following that they deem the Fight Club. Fight Club is appropriately
rated &quot;R&quot;-there are some of the most brutal fight scenes in this movie
I have ever seen. You'll see more blood on screen here than in most war
movies. One scene in particular was highly disturbing, and there are
many where men are beat within inches of their life. But therein lies
the intriguing part of this movie-the number of people who found a
strange euphoric solace in the brutal, merciless atmosphere of the
underground fights. There are few personal fights in this movie-and yet
the anger that flows from the members of this outlaw club is as real as
it gets. The actors with stark realism portray men at the edge of their
sanity-needing more relief than any class can provide. So instead of
focusing on the fights themselves, Fight Club focuses on the
desperation of people in American society. It represents many
suppressed desires, fears, and the general curiosity that average
people hold. If that was Fight Club's goal, it succeeds. Another area
that Fight Club excels in is portraying a dark, desperate atmosphere.
Even Tyler Durden's insane antics don't lighten up the mood. You want
to laugh at some scenes, yet almost all of the humor in this movie is
bitter-sweet. This is kept up from start to finish with amazing pace.
You never feel rushed to the next scene, instead the movie flows evenly
throughout. Fight Club may not be for everybody, but if you have time
to sit down and follow its complex plot, it comes highly recommended
from me.
