2001_November 18 

I must admit that when i first saw this movie i loved it up until the
&quot;liposuction&quot; scene. I thought that it was simply there for shock value
until i saw it again and came to the conclusion that every review i've read
is missing the point of who Tyler Durden really is. Everyone takes the
story
at face value, but maybe Tyler is really the devil. (security cameras don't
lie... hint hint)
Most people seem a bit too enamored with Brad Pitt for my taste. He's a
perfect choice to play Tyler I feel because he is so easy to hate in this
movie. It's sad that Ed Norton doesn't get his props in the movie. (Brad
this and Brad that blahblahblah) It is Ed's deadpan narration and odd mix
of
antisocial-empathy that are central to the movie for me.<br /><br />The scathing sarcasm is a perfect foil for the films redeeming social
commentary which is unfortunately offset by it's appealing to the
audience's
basest voyeuristic desires. (give 'em what they want) If anything this film
was designed to test the boundaries of good taste (if you see it on VHS
you'll miss the worst line of dialogue ever: &quot;I want to have your
abortion.&quot;) If that isn't purient pandering... i don't know what is. Don't
get me wrong, this film delivers comedy in spades. Cornelius' &quot;power
animal&quot;
is hysterical as is his revelation regarding Marla or Chloe's take on the
famous line &quot;medication time&quot;.
The film is filled with sly homages to some of Hollywood's greatest
films
ever: Bladerunner, One flew over the cuckoo's nest, Harold and Maude,
Planet
of the apes, 1984, Room with(out) a view, The last Emperor, and alot of the
late Stanley Kubrik's films.
I'm a bit surprised that it made the 30's in the top 250 as i don't
think
of it as even slightly mainstream, but 30,000+ people liked it. I'll admit
i
like it too, parts of it intensely. The love story part of the movie is
both
funny and sad at the same time. It was really a treat to see Helena Bonham
Carter drop her prim and proper victorian persona and British accent and
get
down and dirty. She does a good job of being both beautiful and repulsive
at
the same time, may she never be typecast again!
I give a recommendation based on it's beautiful yet ugly cinematography,
outrageous comedy, unique love story and it's mostly missed message: &quot;The
world is being destroyed and we're all to blame.&quot; It's too sad that the
world just doesn't get it, but then again... John Lennon couldn't save the
world either. 
