2001_October 7 

   The members of Fight Club are hopelessly pathetic junkies who believe
self-destruction is the most productive way to counter their failures to be
what society tells them they should strive to be, but who they didn't
become.  In the world of Fight Club, there is no need for aspirations to
achieve goals and dreams, so they resort to their counter-programmed,
repressed sadistic tendencies for therapy.  But what does this accomplish? 
In the end, the answer is nothing &#150; nothing more than one man's awakening
from an eternal dream-state.  It is attempting to speak to the dazed and
confused among us by way of the ridiculous notion that violence creates an
understanding of oneself.
   The first two hours of &quot;Fight Club&quot; is a stark and vacuous rambling that
plays out like a like a wannabe hard-core, tough-guy's movie for Gen Xers
who think it's cool to watch grown men smack each other bloody.  And herein
lies the irony &#150; The film plays up the violence quotient to highlight its
characters' worthiness, while we the audience (presumably) cheer these guys
on vicariously through cinema, all the while distanced from the film's `your
id should dictate your being' holy-otherworldliness.  We do not experience
what it is like to be Tyler Durden outside the film's reality, and this
hypocrisy is something he would frown upon.  Those of us not in Fight Club,
are we not living?
   The film gets more ludicrous as it goes, pounding the audience over the
head with the idea that an ever-increasing mass audience would continually
embrace Fight Club, lead by a loser who succumbs to his dual-personality
disorder.  But maybe that's the point &#150; we, the audience, are the newest
members of Fight Club, and we are the victims of a brutal beat-down on our
first night.  But we are entertained by it nonetheless.  Fight Club is an
attack on our senses and sensibilities, one that would make even Tyler
Durden jealous.  It is a knock on materialism, but a champion of
irreverence.  Fight Club is an all-encompassing religion-like way-of-life,
straight out of the school of hard knocks.  It is also a film who's main
character must go through an epiphany of violent escapades and unconscious
musings before he understands what any `normal' person on the street already
knows &#150; that life does offer possibilities and unspecified pinnacles of joy
and enlightenment.  It does not take a wrong before one can understand
productivity and do good.
   I don't think the film glorifies violence; in fact, it's conclusion puts
to rest the edgy leanings that came before it, deploring violence,
brutality, and self-destruction as a waste of time and human life.  However,
morals cannot exist out of context, and the way the filmmakers present them
results in an acidic residue inside the minds of the audience.  It used to
be no blood, no foul; now it's no blood, no self-fulfillment.  I guess pain
really is love.  The film's ultimate effect is one of wanting you to treat
it as a non-sentimental, non-preachy statement on human behavior and
aspirations, but lacks an excuse for us to do so.  Violence brings out the
best in all of us, right Tyler?
   

