2004_May 15 

I feel somewhat compelled to throw a few thoughts to the remarks popping up
in Fight Club that have stirred so many minds. <br /><br />&quot;The things you own end up owning you.&quot; This could be true in a materialized
environment where everyone is selling something for a living and at the same
time doing some purchase and being a consumer himself, where the desire to
have more would easily grow out of control and deluge a soul from inside.
However, it ought not to be understood that it has to be the case for all
who have obtained some kind of property within the easy reach of their
pockets, and that one would be better off without having anything in his
possession. A few nice pieces of furniture from IKEA would not make one feel
being possessed (or enslaved), but a craving for everything clever probably
would. So the issue may not be a simple matter of to have or not to have,
but rather a delicate business of finding a balance between what one can
comfortably earn and what one really needs for survival. The dividing line
might get so fine that one more step could make difference.<br /><br />  
&quot;It's only after we've lost everything that we're free to do anything.&quot; A
very inspiring theory for those who know what they are up to when
freed(or,to be on the safe side, BEFORE taking the plunge). Indeed, men can
give up things they own and endure a much-reduced living condition if only
they know there are better things for them to fight for. Burning a condo
full of nice stuff might sound exciting. But if you don't belong to that
clever bunch, don't do it. <br /><br />&quot;How much can you know about yourself if you've never been in a fight?&quot; This
is perhaps the most interesting saying in the whole Fight Club thing. Yet
different interpretation of it could result in very different scenarios.
Taking it literally means you've got to exchange blows with someone and see
if you can conquer him (or, if not, what will be left of you after that), so
as to give yourself an assessment. However, this concept can be as glorious
as it is perilous. It would be fine for you, if you happened to be a
powerfully built man apt at one-two stuff. But what if you were not the
type, but the smirking guy paired up with you was, and you knew, by a mere
glance of his mean face, that, three minutes into it, you would surely be
punched into a nasty squash of pulp? How are you going to make a fair
evaluation of your precious self in a situation like that, eh? However,
taking the saying beyond its surface and assuming it implying the meaning
that one could fight with whatever one is strong on, the whole theory would
be of great significance to many. Indeed, with that idea in place, nearly
every sort of being can fight. For instance, if you had a head much more
decent than the trunk beneath, you could go fight with your brainpower&iexcl;&ordf;
outwitting a mind could be as thrill (if not thriller) as thumping a body
into submission. And even if you were a God-forgotten child, having a head
and a form with qualities way below the average, and a down-and-out life
with no one there to care for you but an old lame dog, you could still fight
the world with all the defiance and burden-free calmness that only you could
possibly have, walking on the street with your head held high and your dog
at your heels, daring anyone who has everything to take anything with them
when the time comes. In the end we are all equal, aren't we?<br /><br />
