2009_October 8 
In the summer of 2000, when I had absolutely nothing to do, Helena, my
neighbor knocked on my door. When I opened the door she excitedly asked
me if I had seen the movie Fight Club yet. At that time I was sure that
I had never heard of it, but I became interested after seeing her be so
enthusiastic about it. So I went next door and watched it with her.
Since then, this film has become one of my all time favorites. Tyler
Durden&#x27;s character is insanely likable, because he is full of
enlightened information. He is obviously a sociopath making him seem
terrifying, witty, funny and brilliant. He is not a one sided character
as some would think from the title of the film. Tyler makes you
question some, if not all, of your conservative beliefs. I&#x27;ve actually
found myself quoting some of the things Tyler has said, years after
I&#x27;ve seen the film. Tyler believes the world has turned into nothing
more that a commercialized way of life. Some of the things he does will
blow your mind and will definitely make you a little squeamish. Unlike
many of us, Tyler wants to hit rock bottom, because he believes, &#x22;It is
only when you have lost everything that you are free to do anything.&#x22;
His dreams are for the world to go back to a more primal state. His
outlook on human life itself may be somewhat disturbing, but it makes
you stop and say to yourself, &#x22;Wow, that makes sense.&#x22; The cast of
Fight Club is superb, and Brad Pitt&#x27;s performance as Tyler Durden is
incredible. He makes you believe that Tyler is a part of his
personality. Even Brad&#x27;s twisted laugh through out the film makes you
believe he has a loose screw. Also, I could not help to hang on every
word that Edward Norton said through his narration. His acting ability
many would say is always worth seeing. In the beginning of the movie
his character is an insomnia-tic zombie living the mundane corporate
life. He transitions his character right up to the end when you can see
that he is a changed man. Marla&#x27;s character is someone that really
doesn&#x27;t care what anyone thinks about her. Her philosophy of life is
that is she might die at any moment, and the tragedy was that she
didn&#x27;t. Helena Bonham Carter is a perfect fit for her part, her
statements make you want to laugh, but also make you feel a little
uncomfortable. Some of the scenes are ad lib-bed and Helen definitely
contributed to some of the taboo aspects of the film. The time line for
this film is done in a way that jumps along through different parts of
the story, but is so fluent that even the most average movie watcher
will know what&#x27;s going on. This film also has everything a seasoned
movie watcher comes to see. The imagery and the cinematography are done
flawlessly, the witty irony will make you laugh out load, and the dark
and grimy scenes go hand in hand with the dark comedy.. Just remember
that this is a satirical work and once you get to the mouth dropping
explosive surprise ending. It cohesively brings the whole film into
perspective. I believe that this film should be watched more than once,
simply because you will be able to see the imagination and effort
behind every scene. To me I honestly think that this is one of the most
incredible films I have ever seen. My opinion of this film is that it
is a dark and honest poem that speaks directly to my male generation,
and I urge you to give it a chance so that you may witness the genius
behind it too.
