2010_September 10 
Resident Evil Afterlife is a 3D holiday ride, but it suffers from some
serious problems especially like Apocalypse. Firstly, the battle
between zombies and Alice&#x27;s team is not the center of the story (we see
them in two three scenes maximum) Secondly, I had not expected
Shakespearan dialogs, character studies, a Kubrick-like direction or
Tarantino-like camera work, but like the other sequels, cinematically,
all we have are showy shots and showy slow motions. Really doesn&#x27;t
entertainment cinema need masterful story telling? artistic styles?
developed characters and powerful scripts? If you expect more than
entertainment (for example a well written script or well direction),
keep your expectations very low. Paul W.S. Anderson has potential, he
can do much more! (despite he disappointed some of his fans by Alien
vs. Predator) In the fourth sequel, he takes the helm, he is back as
the director, but this time, he is not different from the directors of
the previous sequels. Thirdly, haven&#x27;t the trend of The Matrix passed
already? The opening sequence is like an imitation of The Matrix
trilogy and there is even a Agent Smith like guy with sun glasses who
is able to dodge the bullets which leave trace in the air! Can there be
a bigger joke than this? By the way, more than one Alice was not a good
idea, if you ask me, but the movie leaves that at the beginning
luckily. This is not a R rated zombie movie (7+), so it is mildly
bloody and mildly violent. May be that&#x27;s why the movie&#x27;s focus is not
zombie human combat, instead, we watch some Matrix-like action! It is
weird that the first movie is not liked even by some fans, but The
first Resident Evil was subtle, simple and solid (direction and script
both) Some scenes were unforgettable, remarkable, the atmosphere and
make up were effective, but Anderson does not do it again. The main
villain is like another ridiculous joke, in fact, it was like one of
the things (difficulties) that confronts Alice rather than a real
villain. Were the mutant dogs again necessary?, what was the point of
those experimental people? In all the sequels, there is a guy who turns
into a disgusting monster etc. The best scene of the movie personally
was the scene with the giant hatchet, but also it was the most
meaningless scene of the movie, who is that executioner-like thing? he
works for who? what is the aim of him? Except the opening sequence,
almost till the second half, I can say that there is no action, but
this does not mean boring. It is a great pleasure to see Milla Jovovich
as Alice on the screen again, one of my favorite actresses, I am not a
3D expert, but 3D was completely satisfying (despite I closed my eyes
at the attacking dog moments) but no more than that, but it seems that
children, some teens and the incorrigible fans will love this movie
too.
