2005_January 23 
OK, let me get straight to the point and start off by saying that this
film is functioned by one simple pro and one massive con. The pro being
the near endless action that occurs in RE:A, (even though the majority
of it lacks any realism or sense) and the con being that the dialogue
in this film has got to be some of the worst in any film that I have
seen in 2004 - even though I've avoided such proverbial stinkers like
Catwoman and House of the Dead. The film's plot is as basic as ever.
Following the events that occurred from the first film, Alice (Milla
Jovovich) awakes from the Umbrella hospital to a desolate Raccoon city
which has succumbed to the T-Virus that once infected the Hive, here
she roams the zombie-plagues streets in a bid to find survivors. Among
them she finds S.T.A.R.S member Jill Valentine (Sienna Guillory) and a
batch of RPD officers, and together they unite to escape the city.
However, their problems are increased when they are pursued by a
colossal hulking monster called the Nemesis which is being controlled
by Umbrella. What follows (after the plot literally falls apart in
front of your eyes) is the most unbelievable, non-sensical action
you'll probably see, ever, in an action film. Hollywood cinematographer
veteran Alexander Witt makes his directional debut with this film under
the screenplay of Paul W.S Anderson, and it blatantly seems that
Anderson had spend more time focusing on his Alien Vs. Predator project
more than the work on this film. Because RE:A really does seemed rushed
due to the fact that there is absolutely no character development
whatsoever, enormous plot holes that would require an uneducated
deaf-blind monkey to not acknowledge. But, if its any consolation, this
film pays more homage to the video games than the previous film did,
including several references and shot-by-shot scenes which are taken
straight from the series. And because of the bigger budget, the visual
effects have vastly improved from that of the original, but that
doesn't excuse the fact that it still comes of as a failed attempt to
create a wholesome action film. Its a good thing I'm such a fan of the
Resident Evil game series, because if I wasn't - or if this film wasn't
Resident Evil - the following score would've been a lot lower.<br /><br />Score 5.5/10
