2004_October 14 
I always expected the worst from this movie. It's not the sort of movie
that does well in the eyes of its fan base, it always seems to fall
short and this is exactly what has happened here. 'Resident Evil:
Apocalypse' is bigger and better than its predecessor ('Resident Evil:
Biohazard'). However, it is not completely perfect. Not by a long shot.
For starters, the whole movie completely looses any sense of tension
present in the first 'Resident Evil' movie (when they were trapped in a
large underground laboratory along with hordes of the undead) and
replaces it with full-on action. The result is a movie which is more
like a computer game, and which follows the line of the 'Resident Evil'
games much more (which is a bonus for fans of the games who felt
disconnected with the first movie) but isn't scary or shocking in the
slightest. The movie also has a lot of plot holes. These can be
overlooked but some parts of the movie really do ask you to be almost
brain-dead to enjoy it (and also ask forgiveness for the inclusion of
completely stereotypical characters which seem to be lifted from a
computer game with absolutely no character development at all). Saying
this, the movie is also partly confusing. It tries to follow too many
stories and doesn't explain anything in a great detail. The ending will
also test even the smartest of brains. The movie just doesn't get the
balance right. Perhaps this can be chalked up to the first-time
director Alexander Witt, but it seems for likely to be from trying to
please everyone, and ultimately pleasing no one. Despite being
different from the original, it still manages to include throwback
references including an outline of the plot from the first movie, and a
few ideas which were used in the original are used here again. If your
looking for a movie like 'Biohazard' in the sense of tension, then look
elsewhere. If your a fan of the game or the first movie, then there is
still plenty here in order to keep you entertained. All we have to do
now is wait patiently for the third movie installment of 'Resident
Evil' (names which have arisen so far include 'Aftermath' and
'Afterlife') to determine whether this turns out to be a cohesive unit
when placed together as a trilogy ('Apocalypse' ends on a great
cliff-hanger which will leave you hungry for the next movie and gives
little hints about what the next movie will be about). It's a shame
that in a year seemingly filled with great zombie movies such as 'Shaun
of the Dead', 'Resident Evil: Apocalypse' doesn't manage to bring
anything new to the genre, but still manages to be entertaining.
