2004_September 19 

Everyone is entitled to their own opinion and I think that's what makes
IMDb such a great site for reviews. When a movie trailer peaks my
interest, one of the first things I do is come to this site to see what
others have thought about the film. Usually there are a variety of
opinions ranging from &quot;excellent&quot; to &quot;pure crap&quot; for any movie, no
matter how ridiculous it may seem to me and I respect that. It's very
disappointing however, to check the reviews and see that virtually no
one appreciated a movie that I had high hopes for but have yet to
watch. It happened with AvP, in which complaints of bad lighting, bad
angles on combat scenes and a general absent-mindedness for logic in
the plot ruined any anticipation that built up when watching the
trailer over and over. But as I have said, everyone has an opinion and
that's what makes sites like this worth checking out. I have benefited
from fair reviews in which the critic still disapproves of a movie, but
lists it's merits as well as it's faults.<br /><br />I hope to give a fair review for Resident Evil: Apocalypse. First off,
I liked this movie, a little better than the first actually. Apocalypse
had a sense of urgency that I thought kept the plot rolling at a nice
pace. The actor's performances were alright, I mean really, there was
nothing too challenging about their roles. They just had to be
convincing at looking scared, angry and eventually dead. The story was
laid out decently enough, nothing too innovative or complex, but then
again there was nothing innovative or complex about the games in which
this movie was based from. I was a fan of the games, for the action and
the sheer expasiveness of the settings where the game was played. And
that's what I think made this sequel so enjoyable. There were more
references and subtle details thrown into this movie making it a more
complete game to movie conversion. The action scenes were okay,
entertaining and not dragged out. The special effect scenes involving
the lickers, explosions, etc were par for the course really, but it was
nice to see the slow-mo bullet sequence appear here as it has become a
staple of any movie in which a gun is used since the success of the
first Matrix and whatever movie the Wachowski Bros ripped it from. The
overall location and set of this movie are fantastic, which is it's
real claim to fame here. Eerie atmosphere, labyrinthine city, danger
around every corner gave the movie the edge that the first didn't quite
nail. And finally, the costumes were passable. I liked the Nemesis
design, very true to the game and brought to the movie with the same
intensity as it had in RE 3. And finally, what everyone thought sent
the movie overboard was the Uber-Alice. Did it ruin the movie? Not
really. Could the movie have ended the same way if ALice didn't have
these powers, I think so. But it would have taken some thought. They
destroyed the mutated licker in RE1 okay enough without super powers.
Why not just steal Nemesis' bazooka?<br /><br />The review is getting long here, so I'll wrap it up quickly. Resident
Evil Apocalypse is a good movie if measured in terms of action,
explosions and atmosphere. It's not going to win any awards for acting
at the Oscars, and it's certainly not getting any attention in the
horror genre for new and innovative ways to kill people. It's just a
flat-out good flick worth a matin&eacute;e price.

