2004_September 12 

first of all, anyone who hasn't, should go play the games. hopefully
your eyes will be opened to how truly awful this movie is. sometimes i
wonder who green lights this cinematic poo. the acting was atrocious.
there were so many things that were wrong that shouldn't have been. my
number one gripe was the way the story was portrayed. the whole purpose
of resident evil was to be scared sh*tless the entire time. either by
taking on the undead with 3 bullets from a broken gun or a dull knife
or just general fear of the unknown .resident evil was supposed to
instill this sense of dread. the only thing dreadful was the movie
however. the superhero idea (played by jovovich) was just to much. this
isn't alien vs. predator. what the heck was anderson thinking? jovovich
may be a good actor somewhere else, but just wasn't right for this
part. the movie attempted to make her seem like a super being.
unfortunately, the things she did and said were just plain out cheesy.
i would say something else, but i forgot the rest of the cast. so much
potential character development was left out. carlos olivera was my
favorite character in RE3 and they just butchered his character.
valentine wasn't even introduce in the first movie. how are people
supposed to know, nor even care who she is. her character was horrible
in this movie. she was nothing like that.<br /><br />AND<br /><br />nemesis WAS NOT a friggin sissy like this movie made him out to be.
what were these people thinking? to make one of the scariest and most
feared characters in video gaming history into a caring, sensitive,
disfigured person in his early 30s. when i saw nemesis coming, i
usually didn't try to fight if i had the chance to run. i sure as hell
didn't get into a BOXING match with him. of all of the things in this
movie that should have been invulnerable and unstoppable, it should
have been him.<br /><br />this garbage only has the resident evil name stamped on it. appealing
to the younger generation shouldn't be this horrible.

