2005_September 11 
Unfortunately, for me I am a Resident Evil nerd, housing all the games
and the books! The original RE was good but not on a video game level.
What I mean is, if someone never played Resident Evil I wouldn't tell
them to see the original to understand why its so popular. It would
appear that the creators of the movie were not gunning to make the
first RE anything like the game but, just the idea so people could get
a feel for the storyline. Regardless of this it was still a good movie.
Its sequel Resident Evil: Apocalypse in my opinion totally surpassed
the first just because it WAS video game based. To me if your going to
remake something esp. a video game it should be true to form and as
ACCURATE as possible. For example, people who aren't die hard RE fans
wouldn't know that yes, Sienna Guillory did look like Jill Valentine,
however, Jill's hair was sandy brown not black. Jill didn't smoke, and
she definitely didn't have &quot;Im a tough b*tch and I'm in charge&quot;
attitude. Even in the 3rd game where Jill has been through this
situation already she was never arrogant. I think they portrayed Jill
that way and I didn't care to much for it. I know its Hollywood and
things change for movies sake, but come on, you couldn't find a bottle
of light brown hair dye? As for Carlos and Nicholai. Nicholai was in
his fifties and Carlos was in his early twenties. Oded Fehr was to old
to play the part of Carlos and Zack Ward to young to be Nicholai. Again
I know that its a movie but this are little things that they could have
gotten right.<br /><br />Even though Alice (Milla) has absolutely no relation to the game
what-so-ever her character brought so much to RE as a movie. Giving you
a back story that definitely &quot;fits&quot; into the game world as a
possibility allowing Alice to head the storyline. I love Milla and
think she does an excellent job in both movies. If anything see this
movie to watch Milla Kick A**! She definitely fits as a strong,
powerful woman, but still feminine. They couldn't have casted anyone
better for the part.<br /><br />The biggest thing about this movie that would have MADE it for gamers
was the &quot;Nemesis&quot; Any one who knows RE games immediately recognized
this terror! They depicted the Nemesis to a T! It was incredible to
learn it was an actual person in a costume! Everything from head to toe
was absolutely perfect! They did an amazing job on Nemesis! Perfect!
Overall, this one definitely went above and beyond the original. Mabe I
just feel that way because this was the type of RE remake I was waiting
for. Although I have to be honest. I would love to see them remake the
1st game! As accurate to the game as possible. Then, I would wowed!
Bottom Line: See it, you won't be disappointed!
