2004_October 26 
I used to believe that Paul W.S. Anderson was not getting a fair break
from the Hollywood studio system. It's an easy belief to support, given
that every film he has made so far has been hacked apart by the MPAA or
a film studio acting upon MPAA orders. This evening, however, I
witnessed a film so indescribably awful that not only do I believe my
mother's pet silky terrier can puke up a better script, it has erased
any respect I might have one had for Paul Anderson.<br /><br />The MPAA's R rating is quite meaningless, and that studios cut their
film in order to get it is a telling sign of what is wrong with
Hollywood today. In Australia, Resident Evil: Apocalypse was passed
with the very softcore M rating, and this attempt at a film is a mild M
at that. The atmosphere of the first film is absent, and the violence
is so toned down that it resembles one of those Modified For Television
cuts that were so reviled here in the 1980s.<br /><br />I now know why they changed the name from Nemesis to Apocalypse. There
was once a belief that the Nemesis name is cursed, given that the Star
Trek film with the same secondary title tried to compete with a Lord Of
The Rings film and failed miserably. I have a funny feeling that Capcom
saw the script, imagined what it would look like on film, and quietly
asked that it not be associated with their excellent video game. The
Nemesis in this film isn't so much an unstoppable killing machine as he
is a drooling idiot in need of a friend. The Hunters/Lickers also take
a beating here, too, having been confused with Speedy Gonzales.<br /><br />The cinematography and editing in this film are beyond a joke, too.
Like all incompetent directors, Alexander Witt rarely keeps his camera
still for more than a few seconds at a time. During the hand-to-hand
fight scenes, the extraneous camera movement is enough to make me fight
off the urge to vomit. I doubt I am the only one, and it certainly
makes me glad that I don't have epilepsy. Contrast this with the
stable, well-angled shots of the original. Better yet, watch the fight
scene with the Nemesis, then contrast it with the shot of Alice putting
her foot in the final zombie dog's head during the original. The
camera-shaking fad has outlived its welcome by a major factor. Then
there's the editing. In the original fast-paced action sequences were
mixed in with slow, languid sequences that helped set up an atmosphere.<br /><br />That's another thing basically lacking from this sequel. Atmosphere. As
there is rarely a shot or sequence that lasts more than two minutes due
to the incoherent editing, none of the characters are given enough
background to seem even slightly human. Anderson spent some time
explaining the skills that his characters were meant to have, so it
seemed natural when they made use of them. In Witt's film, characters
constantly display abilities or skills that the audience was never made
privy to before. Constantly-repeated, blurred, obscure footage of
doctors injecting a character with their virus do not count.<br /><br />The worst part, after all these insults to the viewer, is the ending in
which we're set up for another sequel. After the dog barf that was
served up in the other 85 minutes of this film, to spend another five
suggesting that there's going to be more is like a punch in the eye.
They should have ditched their plans for a sequel and instead filmed
another half-hour of footage for this one. An extra half-hour of
exposition or setup would have saved this accident from being a total
write-off.<br /><br />I gave Resident Evil: Apocalypse a one out of ten. The MPAA is
constantly moaning about how piracy is eating into their profits, and
yet they continue to make garbage like this. Seeing an organisation
that controls billions of dollars worth of assets in this kind of
denial is really sad to observe.
