2005_April 20 
Like all big fans of the excellent Resident Evil video game series; I
was extremely dismayed and disappointed by the first movie. The
characters, the style, the location and even the zombies just WERN'T
Resident Evil, and as I went in expecting to see something very much
like the games on screen, I came out of the movie feeling very cold. In
fact, the only thing I did like about the movie was the ending, and
that's where the last movie should have started. This movie, however,
does start there; so is it finally the translation that us Resident
Evil fans have been hoping for? Errr...no. Once again, the movie makers
have failed to capture the game's spirit, which has been completely
ditched in favour of several irrelevant and very two-dimensional
characters, a very suspect script and action sequences that are only in
the film to keep the attention of the less intelligent film fans. The
plot basically follows a bunch of characters that find themselves in
the middle of the outbreak in Racoon City, and obviously they decide to
make their way out of the city to safety. Resident Evil 3's main
villain, The Nemesis, is thrown in for good measure.<br /><br />To the movie's credit, it isn't all bad. Certain things, like the city
for example, look great and are very reminiscent of the game. Sienna
Guillory is another positive factor of the movie, as aside from looking
great; she does look very much like Jill Valentine as well. However,
the good parts end there as from there on out; the movie basically
laughs in the face of the fan base it's trying to attract. Dr Ashford
and Nicolai Ginovaeff, for a start, were villains in the games; and I
know one thing for sure, The Nemesis would never have helped out the
good guys in Resident Evil 3. It is a little known fact that the
Resident Evil movie was a rip-off of Aliens; and this movie has decided
to take much of it's influence from the underrated Alien: Resurrection.
We've got the awful Milla Jovovich stepping into the souped up female
role that Sigourney Weaver did much better, and then the whole
Alice-Nemesis relationship has been ripped straight out of that movie.
That relationship, like all character related aspects of the movie,
doesn't work because of the complete lack of emotion in the script.
This also makes it hard to care about anything that happens in the
movie.<br /><br />While Resident Evil Apocalypse is entertaining in a guilty pleasure
sort of a way, even this must be stripped from it's very lacking resume
of good points. The film tries too hard to entertain and most of the
entertaining elements pop up in the form of another explosion or Milla
Jovovich jumping over some scenery and it gets boring very quickly. In
my opinion, Resident Evil fans are better just sticking to the games.
Leave this.
