2011_January 22 
He&#x27;s a guardian angel walking the streets, a vicious protector of the
weak and innocent. He is the hobo with a shotgun. He is Rutger Hauer.
Hobo with a Shotgun is the story of... well, the title pretty much says
it all. Bad guys led by a enjoyably psychotic gang lord named Drake
dominate the unnamed city that is the setting of the movie. Drake and
his two equally messed up offspring, Slick and Ivan, terrorize the
people of this tortured city uncontested until the arrival of Hauer&#x27;s
Hobo, intent on using his saved nickels and dimes to buy a rusty old
lawnmower that will surly start him on a honest, rewarding career.
Sadly for Mr. Hobo, destiny has other plans, and our hero uses his
mower money to purchase a old pump action shotgun with the intent of
cleaning up the city. Along the way he is aided by a prostitute named
Abby (a stunningly beautiful Molly Dunsworth) who has an affinity for
destruction. <br /><br />This films greatest strength is its oddball tone and freakishly
beautiful bursts of violence that occur periodically through the movie.
The chunks of the movie that involve crazy old Rutger Hauer blasting
through waves of baddies in brutal fashion and the bizarre acts of
violence perpetrated by the films antagonists are easily the
highlights, and they never fail to delight with their brilliant,
twisted gore effects. Director Jason Eisener is a master of cinematic
displays of blood and guts, and god bless him for it because it takes
the film to a whole other level. I would love to provide an example for
your reading pleasure, but tragically spoiling any part of this movie
is a crime to heinous to contemplate committing. Just know you will
leave the theater feeling like a changed man after the brutal displays
of carnage presented. <br /><br />Unfortunately, the film is ultimately brought down by some poor scenes
that stretched on for agonizing lengths. Many of these involve our
homeless protagonist ranting senselessly to his lovely caretaker Abby,
others involve the already hyperbolically inflated villains plotting
the death of the Hobo. Perhaps what is most tragic is that Hauer, with
the exception several brilliant lines in the films third act, never
gets a chance to truly shine as the shotgun wielding hero, a huge
disappointment considering the potential he possessed. Regardless of
these flaws, the film is still an incredible experience based solely on
the incredible displays of creative gore.
