2011_June 13 
Well, this film surprised me a bit it has to be said. I went into it
not knowing a thing about it other than the not unreasonable assumption
that it would be about a hobo with a shotgun. On that point it did
deliver what it indeed promised. However, what I was not prepared for
was the sheer excess of the film in terms of extreme blood-shed. Be
under no illusions, Hobo With A Shotgun is an unbelievably violent
film. So much so, that there were even some moments when I am sure I
looked away. It seems to have been conceived as a homage to the
exploitation films of the 70&#x27;s and early 80&#x27;s. So much so that the look
of the film mimics them in that it has a washed out colour scheme,
while it seems to be set circa 1981. The unusual feel of the film also
extends to little details such as cars with no registration plates and
the clearly unrealistic lawless town in which the action takes place.
These interesting aesthetic details do elevate the film somewhat and
makes it more that a mere grindhouse imitator.<br /><br />The story-line itself is a basic vigilante story, but a vigilante story
on amphetamines. The villains are all cardboard but thoroughly
unpleasant none-the-less, while Rutger Hauer gives it his all in his
role as the central character. The film overall is put together
effectively and looks good throughout, with the gore effects very
convincing. It&#x27;s a fast-paced film too, so it&#x27;s very hard to get bored
watching this one. The only issue I can see is that some viewers will
be appalled by the level of violence as it&#x27;s not immediately obvious
that this flick is going to be so extreme. They do seem to
intentionally go for quite a few taboos here, even going so far as to
kill a bus load of infants with a flame-thrower. However, it&#x27;s just
basically impossible to take the film very seriously as it is so
clearly a movie with no sense of reality at all. It was a pretty good
trash-fest in the final analysis though, so if you like your movies
hyper-violent then you might just lap this one up.
