2004_August 2 

Finally on DVD! Warner's DVD features both versions of Dr. Jekyll and
Mr. Hyde, the classic 1931 Rouben Mamoulain version, and the 1941
Victor Fleming version. First off let us start with the 1931 version.
Although dated by today's standards of high-tech filmaking loaded with
CGI trickery to distract from mediocre storytelling, this has always
been my personal favorite telling of the Stevenson novel. Loaded with
symbolism some subtle, and some blatantly obvious, the movie zips along
at a nice pace. Fredric March (who won an Oscar) chews up the scenery
quite nicely altering between kind and benevolent Dr. Jekyll, and
immoral and unscrupulous Mr. Hyde. Some have noted that when the Hyde
persona emerges that Mr. March looks like a grotesque parody of Jerry
Lewis on bad steroids - sadly this true - however keep in mind of the
era in which this film was shot, and for what it's worth Mr. March
almost suffered permanent disfigurement because of the painful make-up
applications. These were the days before Dick Smith and Stan Winston.
The film also boasts a fine supporting cast especially by (back then
hottie) Miriam Hopkins as the ill-fated &quot;Champagne Ivy&quot; who oozes with
sensuality and delivers a performance on par with March's. Furthermore
the film is really elevated by Mamoulain's solid direction, and
incredible cinematography (Oscar-nominated) by Karl Struss, which
features even by today's standards some great (a first) P.O.V. shots,
wipes, and dissolves. The transformation scenes are very effective and
convincing, and still hold up very well for first time viewers. Also of
noteworthy mention is the fact of how severely the movie was censored
after its initial screenings for being too explicit in its sexual and
violent overtones, timid by comparisons of what we see and hear today,
but quite shocking to the ruling class (Christian and church groups
especially) back in 1931, that caused the film to be shorn by 18
minutes of footage - now restored.<br /><br />The 1941 version however is also good especially for Ingrid Bergman's
tour-de-force performance (which she would top three years later in
&quot;Gaslight&quot;) as the fatal beauty of Hyde's jealous lust. Spencer Tracy
dispenses with the heavy make-up that Fredric March had to endure and
tries for a more low-key, yet just as sinister and evil Mr. Hyde - many
think he was miscast as the lead - however that is a question of taste,
also the same can be said about Lana Turner's character being too
beatific. However on the plus side the film has an amazing dream/
nightmare scene with Bergman and Turner as centaurs being driven by
whip-wielding Spencer Tracy. The Oscar-winning cinematography by Joseph
Ruttenberg is lush giving the film a wonderful atmosphere - especially
the foggy gaslight lit streets. A great (also Oscar-nominated) score by
Franz Waxman is the icing on the cake. Although a bit sluggish in its
pacing this is still a worthwhile entry in the classic horror genre.<br /><br />Warner's DVD also includes a really insightful (and not redundant)
audio commentary track by author/film historian Greg Mank for the 1931
version, but unfortunately none for the 1941 version - the only bonus
for that version is the original theatrical trailer. Also since this a
Warner DVD it wouldn't be a complete tribute without including the
Looney Tunes short animated &quot;Hyde and Hare&quot; in which Bugs Bunny is
adopted by none other than Dr. Jekyll.

