2003_January 20 

The hardest part of making a soft-focus soft-porn sex film must be finding
two attractive leads (or three, if that's your thing) to
screw-screw-fight-resolve-screw for the cameras. Having done that, the plot
and dialogue is largely incidental; the characters become the scenery, the
sex becomes the language, the story ... well, there just isn't
one.
Zalman King surely did find two fine looking leads, and they certainly did
look good on screen (sexual chemistry and all that). Richard Tyson had his
shirt off at every turn, and had the chest to do so, while Sherilyn Fenn was
all legs, curves, beauty spots and peroxide. And when they had pseudo-sex,
it looked relatively passionate and realistic. All very nice and going to
plan so far. <br /><br />Now, the cliche-ridden story. April (Fenn) is a Southern beauty, the pride
of her family, bearer of the Dixie-whistling eggs that will carry on the
family name; she's a carbon-copy of her grandmother (Fletcher) who's a cross
between Mae West and Dixie Carter. April's also engaged to a handsome but
ultimately boring young man with terrific prospects; the marriage therefore
represents a union of great Southern families and cannot be jeopardized. But
April feels (shock, horror) frustrated, cornered, in need of sexual
experimentation ... and when muscle-bound carny Perry (Tyson) turns up,
she's easy pickings. Another hauling-out of that age-old social question:
why do nice young girls shun nice young boys, and pursue muscle-bound
beefcake that's long on testosterone, but short on brains and money. Ho
hum.<br /><br />Despite all this, Two Moon Junction isn't a psychological drama, it's an
excuse for sex - so there's sex, more sex, falling-out sex and making-up
sex. Aside from making some fun of the folks down south, the plot does
nothing else but justify the four or five sex scenes and pad out the screen
time between them. For its genre, it does all this moderately well, though
it's strictly 'thinking caps off'.<br /><br />
