2004_October 5 

There are so many films that have had talked about relationships. But
it is a rare treat and rarity to see a film that goes into the heart of
love and relationships. I saw this movie after almost a year since my
relationship with my b/f (and the father of our son) have broken up. I
found myself crying and even wishing that there was such a technology
that can remove all memories of him and of our relationship. But then I
started to remember the really good times he and I had shared and most
importantly the child that he had created together. &quot;Eternal Sunshine
of the Spotless Mind&quot; tells the story of Joel Barrish (Jim Carrey in
his best performance and I hope he receives an Oscar nomination for
best actor) who finds out that his ex-girlfriend, Clementine (Kate
Winslet), has had all memories of their relationship erased by this
medical procedure run by Lacuna, Inc. Out of bitterness and revenge,
Joel also sets out to have her erased completely. But during the
procedure, Joel has actually stepped into his brain and looks at his
memories from a different of view. He begins to see the wonderful and
happy memories that he and Clementine had shared and realizes that he
does not want to lose them. While Joel's mind is being erased,
Clementine has started a new relationship with Patrick (Elijah Wood),
who was assisting in the erasing of her memories and tries to get her
to forget. I loved this story and it made me feel sad. The bitterness
and heartbreak of a love that is fading and the desire to be rid of
such pain, but at the same time how strong a love can truly be. The
whole point of the story is that while love is not only painful and
hard, it is also something that redeems and is always forever. I hope
that my ex sees this film and begins to realize the importance of what
was once ours and that maybe one day we can learn from each other in
order to move on with our lives.<br /><br />Jim Carrey is absolutely wonderful and Kate Winslet is lovely and funny
and she has such wonderful scenes with Carrey. Winslet in this film has
proven once again that she is a true leading lady and plays her
character with vulnerability, quirkiness, zaniness, and a sweetness
that makes her character so endearing and sympathetic. A wonderful film
and beautiful screenplay by Charlie Kaufman who is the brains and
genius behind &quot;Being John Malkovich&quot; and &quot;Adaptation.&quot; I loved this
movie and it is one of the best of the year.

