2004_October 15 
First off I really liked this movie (and yes I must admit that I was a
previous kaufman fan). I felt that the most powerful aspect of this
movie and the meaning that I took away from it was that love doesn't
have to be 'perfect' to be worthwhile. Too many, if not all, times
Hollywood will present movies with a romantic angle that are
cookie-cutter perfect. Its always this perfect guy meets some perfect
girl they have this perfect romance with some trite easily-overcome
problems within. I loved the fact that the characters in this movie
argued, and over stupid things, so much like real life. For me the fact
that they argued made the love more real, the movie shows that love has
good and bad sides that one must expect. If you expect your love life
to be like a generic &quot;romantic comedy&quot; you will find yourself eternally
let-down. One of Kate Winslet's early lines in the move cracked me up,
when Carey's character calls her nice and she says shes &quot;a vindictive
b***h&quot;<br /><br />I thought Jim Carey did a great job in staying away from 99% of his
usual facial mannerisms and I really bought his character. I also
really bought the chemistry between the two leads. I think Clementine
embodies many characteristics that Carey's char (I forgot his name)
wishes that he had the courage to be. I think the reason he was
attracted to Clemintine was that she has the ability to do exciting,
spontaneous things that he could never do without her. And in doing so
he feels liberated to an extent, but also resents her freedom from
social constraints to a degree.<br /><br />I also really enjoyed the way the filmmakers superbly captured the
surreal sequences of the film, I dint find it boring, there were
interludes but I had such a vested interest in the film at that point
that I was along for the ride. The ending did seem like they had to
search for a way to tie it together ,(in terms of the whole dunst
romance angle) but really can anyone out there come up with a better
ending? In closing there is no such thing as a 100% original film, just
because all of the subject matter is not 100% original does not mean
that the film cannot give a completely different take and angle on an
old idea. I would be willing to bet that the works of phillip k dick
influenced this film greatly. And this is one of the few romances on
film that I have enjoyed greatly.
