2004_May 25 

Ten minutes into ETERNAL SUNSHINE OF THE SPOTLESS MIND, it was clear
that
screenwriter Charlie Kaufman has a limited bag of tricks. What was
clever
in BEING JOHN MALKOVICH the first time I saw it became pretentious during
the second viewing and insufferable during the third viewing.
ADAPTATION
was a similarly too-clever pretentious exercise in modernist style
with
no substance. ETERNAL SUNSHINE mines the same vein, but this time
around
the results are about as substantial as cotton candy and as permanent
as
a fireworks display. Except for the cutesy plot device--which was refreshing
decades ago when handled by the likes of a Godard or a
Philip
K. Dick or a Harold Pinter--the film is like a second-string Woody
Allen
project fed into a blender (or rewritten by Donald Barthelme).
The &quot;insights&quot; about relationships in this film are, as one
critic
aptly described it, about as profound as those in a Hugh Grant
movie.
And as &quot;experimental&quot; as Kaufman may think he is being, the plot is
as
predictable as that of any b-movie, once one figures out the premise of the
story (which the slowest audience member will do in about 20
minutes).
And what's the point of the murky faux-cinema-verite visual style in many
scenes?
The three points out of ten I awarded this film are primarily for the
actors, Jim Carrey in particular.
When will the Hollywood establishment and the critics finally
learn
that Kaufman is a one-trick-pony? The emperor is not wearing any
clothes
here. As someone who has championed and supported TRUE
avant-garde
filmmaking for decades, I see this as a cheap Hollywood pastiche of the
avant garde. Those who found John Sayles' LONE STAR to be &quot;multi-layered&quot;
instead of cliche-ridden will find much to praise and discuss in ETERNAL
SUNSHINE. While Kaufman is not as bad as P.T.
Anderson (at least Mr. Kaufman manages to honor traditional
story
structures while re-fashioning them, and at least he can
create
REAL if shallow characters, something Anderson hasn't learned to
do),
my evening would have been better spent watching a straight-to-video
action film or some obsscure 1950s Allied Artists post-noir crime
film.
Rent this one...or better yet, rent something else!
