2004_March 19 
Yes, I realize that any review that isn't an unabashed love letter to
this film is likely to get a &quot;No&quot; vote! :-) I hope you'll note that
although I didn't love this film, I didn't hate it, either. Charlie
Kaufman's script deserved its Oscar, the acting is top-notch, the
emotions rang true, and the DVD's got loads of goodies -- it was the
direction that I felt dragged the film down.<br /><br />If Philip K. Dick had written a romantic comedy, the result might have
turned out like ETERNAL SUNSHINE OF THE SPOTLESS MIND. In this
seriocomic SF love story, Jim Carrey proves again that he's not just
another mugging face, and Charlie Kaufman proves that he's the master
of surreal dramedy. Director Michel Gondry, however, proves that Spike
Jonze is really the most suitable director for Kaufman's particular
brand of daffiness.<br /><br />Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet are stunningly believable as dysfunctional
couple Joel Barish and Clementine Kruczynski. Clem initially seems like
a sexy free spirit with a roguish streak, but as their romance
continues, Joel sees the dark side of Clem's impulsive nature: on her
bad days, hard-drinking Clem is needy and temperamental. What's worse,
she sees Joel's relentlessly low-key, emotionally walled-off nature as
a rebuke to her recklessness. Mutual misery ensues.<br /><br />No wonder Clem finally consults Lacuna, a Manhattan company run by
avuncular Dr. Howard Mierzwiak (Tom Wilkinson) that erases your
memories of a bad relationship. Lacuna even sends postcards to clients'
intimates telling them not to mention the erased ex again, as Joel
discovers when he sees one in their mutual friend's mail. Heartbroken,
he also opts for the Lacuna treatment. While the erasing process takes
him through memories of life with Clem, we discover that, when Joel
wasn't being passive and Clem wasn't drunkenly cracking up Joel's car
at 3 AM, the couple also enjoyed many good times together. Joel's
reluctant to forget these happy moments, and that's where the film gets
phantasmagorical as reality, fantasy, and memory collide. Within the
maze of Joel's mind, he and Clem (who's been panicking and feeling like
she's &quot;disappearing&quot; as she's slowly wiped from Joel's brain, despite
having already forgotten him) team up and try to hide in all kinds of
memories she has no part of. The funniest of these is the scene in
Joel's childhood home, as a shrunken-to-child-size Joel faces Clem as
his mom's miniskirt-clad, go-go-booted neighbor.<br /><br />The details of Lacuna's workings are ...SUNSHINE's most consistently
witty, entertaining bits. Lacuna looks like a typical busy doctor's
office, with receptionist Mary (Kirsten Dunst at her most winsome and
dimply) constantly scheduling appointments: &quot;Valentine's Day is our
busiest time.&quot; Funny yet poignant details abound, such as the
teary-eyed client loaded down with her dog's belongings, a crucial part
of wiping away memories of a loved one. The actual procedure is
performed by young computer techies Stan (Mark Ruffalo) and Patrick
(Elijah Wood, leaving Frodo Baggins far behind) who erase the subjects'
memories in their homes while they sleep. The techs act like a bunch of
fun-loving but irresponsible babysitters, swilling the unsuspecting
Joel's whiskey, smoking pot and having sex (with Mary, not each other
:-) as he sleeps. But Patrick goes beyond mischievousness into
unethicality: usually a strikeout with women, he's begun dating
Clementine, having fallen in love with her while erasing her Joel
memories. Patrick tries to take the expressway to her heart by wooing
her with her discarded Joel mementos. Of course, he doesn't consider
that since Joel's relationship with Clem went sour despite all those
nice gifties, history just might repeat itself. I was disappointed that
there wasn't a bigger payoff to the Patrick subplot; he just kind of
disappears from the film as if *he* were erased. Of course, that may
well be the point! :-) Director Gondry, who also directed Kaufman's
HUMAN NATURE (2001), spends so much time cross-cutting, juggling the
movie's timeline, and inexplicably staging certain scenes in darkness
with only a flashlight rendering the characters' faces visible that
instead of enhancing the storytelling, it's merely distracting. I kept
getting the feeling Gondry didn't trust the story itself to keep
moviegoers' attention -- ironic, since he shares story credit with
Kaufman and artist Pierre Bismuth. Having said that, when the visuals
work, they work wonderfully, like when our hero and heroine dash
through Grand Central Station while commuters wink out of existence
left and right.<br /><br />Refreshingly, the New York locations aren't the usual hip or glamorous
places. Joel and Clementine live in Rockville Centre, Long Island, and
their apartments look just like homes of college students or artistic
types trying to inject Soho style into suburbia. The filmmakers also
make splendid use of the stark beauty of Montauk beaches in winter.<br /><br />For Carrey fans seeking slapstick and belly laughs, ...SUNSHINE... may
seem to drag on eternally; its humor is more in the rueful TRUMAN SHOW
vein, shot through with Kaufman's trademark surrealism. If you want a
love story that will make you laugh knowingly and think about the way
people approach relationships, ...SUNSHINE... is worth seeing.
Hopefully it will convince you that counseling is a better approach to
your relationship problems than science-fiction gadgetry!
