2004_November 1 
&quot;They say that breaking up is hard to do. Now I know, I know that it's
true&quot; - Neil Sedaka <br /><br />The ability to manipulate memory has long been the stuff of science
fiction, inspiring fears of government mind control and films such as
the 1962 classic The Manchurian Candidate. In Eternal Sunshine of the
Spotless Mind, Joel Barish (Jim Carrey) seeks the help of a company
called Lacuna Inc. to erase the memory of ex-girl friend Clementine
Kruczynski (Kate Winslet) after their relationship has faltered. The
film, directed by Michael Gondry and written by Charlie Kaufman, is an
exhilarating rush of a movie, a mind-bending trip that centers on
Joel's memories as they fade from existence and his discovery that what
he and Clementine had was very special despite some difficult moments.
Jim Carrey delivers one of his best performances as Joel recalling his
dramatic triumph in The Truman Show and Kate Winslet captures the
zaniness of her character to perfection.<br /><br />When we first meet Joel and Clementine, they are drawn to each other at
a lonely train station in Montauk, Long Island. They could not be more
dissimilar. He is a shy, introspective loner who cannot look a woman in
the eye. She is outgoing and aggressive with a rebellious spirit that
manifests itself in blue hair (this changes with each mood swing during
the course of the film). We learn later that the fifteen-minute
pre-credit opening was a flashback and that Joel and Clementine have
gone through a two-year relationship that ended in a bitter breakup.
Joel hopes to win her back but when he shows up at the bookstore where
she works to offer her a gift, she acts as if she doesn't even know
him. Joel learns that Clementine has used the services of Lacuna, Inc,
a scientific company that specializes in selective memory erasure, to
wipe out any trace of his memory from her brain. He decides that he
cannot bear to remember Clementine and wants the procedure himself. <br /><br />Enlisting the services of Dr. Howard Mierzwiak (Tom Wilkinson) and his
staff Stan (Mark Ruffalo) and Patrick (Elijah Wood), he agrees to have
her memory zapped. Drugged into unconsciousness, Joel lays on his bed
wired to a laptop with a helmet on his head that looks like a hair
dryer from the 1940s, and begins to relive his history with Clem. The
film races through fifteen minutes of impressionistic and often
gimmicky camera tricks as Joel re-experiences impressions from the past
and attempts to hide the memory of Clementine in inaccessible parts of
his brain. In one scene, Joel remembers going into a deserted beach
house with Clem but as they argue about whether or not they should be
there, the building falls apart around them as the memory is erased.
Another incident takes place in Clem's bookstore where the books
gradually disintegrate into nothing but blank pages. Gondry shifts back
and forth in time from Joel's fantasies to subplots involving the
relationship between a receptionist (Kirsten Dunst) and the doctor and
between Patrick and Clementine that only serve as a brief diversion
from the breakneck pace. <br /><br />As Joel gets in touch with positive things he and Clem enjoyed
together, he is reluctant to give up his memories and discovers that
beyond his thoughts and feelings lies something deeper, an experience
of love that he had not previously been in touch with. Joel finds out
that his memory is not just synapses and nerve endings but part of the
very essence of his identity, that he can erase conscious memory but
not the experience itself. Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is a
somewhat confusing but highly entertaining film that provides an apt
metaphor for the union of two beings who learn to rediscover and accept
the deepest part of themselves.<br /><br />NOTE: If you think the premise of this film is absurd, think twice. A
recent article in the Miami Herald reports studies have been conducted
in the U.S. and France with a drug called propranolol that can block
the hormones that etch memories in the brain and perhaps deaden the
effects of old memories. Ignorance may be bliss after all.
