2007_June 13 
Although packaged in fictional science and a pretzel logic plot,
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is actually one of the deepest
and most honest explorations of the risk, passion, irrationality and
fragility of human relationships. Joel (Jim Carrey) and Clementine
(Kate Winslet) are both mismatched and perfect for each other. We feel
the true attraction of Joel and Clementine, while also seeing how they
trip each other up. These contrary elements can be found in most
real-world relationships, but are seldom portrayed with such truth and
reality as in this movie. Usually in movies the tension between the
attraction of partners and the flaws that repel them is treated as a
stock motivation for the characters. In Eternal Sunshine, these
features are deeply explored by the characters and revealed to us in
ways that more conventional movies cannot approach.<br /><br />This raw truth in the movie is created in equal parts by the
performances of Carrey and Winslet and by the unusual technological
challenge to their relationship and the looping and reversing narrative
that results. Every moment that Joel and Clementine are together the
electricity flows between them--both positive and negative. This movie
is a high water mark for screen chemistry between actors, and all of
the chemistry fills in the full and passionate relationship of the
characters. Forget about the twisting plot and the memory-erasing
technology; the relationship, chemistry and performances of Carrey and
Winslet alone would make this a great movie.<br /><br />Nevertheless, the fictional technology at the core of Eternal sunshine
allowed Joel and Clementine to make choices that we in the real world
cannot; and the consequences for Joel and Clementine only serve to
intensify and deepen the revelation of their characters and
relationship to themselves and to the movie audience. It is the kind of
technology that could have been a gimmick or a distraction, but instead
was used by Charlie Kaufman (screenplay) and Michael Gondry (director)
to explore what makes a relationship tick. Yes, the world of this movie
is completely strange and the narrative structure is fragmented and
looping. But the relationship between Joel and Clementine always
remains central and every odd situation and every twist back
illuminates the characters. The &quot;trickiness&quot; of the screenplay is never
used just to be clever or throw the audience off.<br /><br />The strange and fictional science of Eternal Sunshine takes Joel,
Clementine and us to places we have never gone in movies or in real
life, but every aspect of Joel and Clementine as persons in a
relationship are completely real and fully realized. One of the
greatest relationship movies ever.
