2005_March 4 
Eternal Sunshine is neither the masterpiece that many people will have
you believe nor is it awful as the backlashers claim. Once again
Charlie Kaufman takes the kernel of a great idea and overloads it with
his own obsessive personality. The idea of a couple fighting to retain
beautiful memories of their past together while undergoing a memory
erasure is ingenious. Kaufman definitely hits some poignant notes along
the way (he&#39;s great at communicating the mundane pleasures and comforts
of relationships), but Joel and Clementine&#39;s characters seem like mere
sketches rather than fully developed people that the audience can care
about. Joel in particular is maddening because he&#39;s the same schlubby
protagonist that is in all of Kaufman&#39;s scripts: it&#39;s Charlie himself.
The man is simply incapable of creating characters outside the bounds
of his own personality. Also, the movie isn&#39;t as enjoyable as it should
be. Though I wanted to see how it ended (even though I predicted the
plot twist about 30 minutes into the movie), Kaufman denies the
audience the pleasures of human connection with the characters in favor
of convoluted, intricately distanced storytelling. The characters come
across as rats in an experiment or pawns in a chess game or any other
omniscient metaphor you can think of. And the subplot between the
workers of Lunaca fits but in an unimaginative, convenient way. I must
say that all of the performances were excellent (except Elijah Wood,
but he didn&#39;t have much of a character anyway), particularly Winslet
and Mark Ruffalo. Director Michel Gondry and his team of technicians
give the movie an appropriately jittery, jagged rhythm and look. It
feels like the work of a writer on anti-depressants and Valium filtered
through the mind of a director on a 3-day caffeine binge. That&#39;s not
necessarily a bad thing because without the energy and gimmickry that
Gondry brings to the film, the emptiness of the conception would be all
the more glaring. Don&#39;t believe the hype but don&#39;t discount the film
altogether either. It seems that many people are discovering something
profound in it. Self-doubt and emotional shallowness might be the new
status quo.
