2011_June 14 
When the words prequel and reboot are mentioned about the same film I
get a little sceptical. I loved the X-Men series and so wanted this to
be good. Gladly, this was a welcome addition and an example of a
prequel that works brilliantly on many levels but also takes a few
liberties in some areas. If you are very aware of the past X-Men films
there are a few things that differ with the continuity that you&#x27;ll be
aware of. At first I was irritated by this but I realised that it it
simply what happens when some prequels like this film are made. If this
sort of thing does irritate you be aware of this and you may end up
enjoying it after all. I sound cagey in this respect but I do want to
keep this review spoiler free. Just be aware of this as there is
special effort made for this film to show its individuality in many
respects. <br /><br />The performances were all good and some very good, Kevin Bacon as
Sebastian Shaw occasionally came across as goofy for a villain but
showed his worth when he needed to be threatening especially once the
third act came along. James McAvoy and Michael Fassbender did very well
together and had a brilliant rapport. I thought it would have been
difficult to replicate this given the chemistry that Patrick Stewart
and Ian McKellen had in the X-Men trilogy. They did very well together
and I really believed their friendship, that is not to mention they do
well in scenes when they are not together as well. The other mutants
started out fairly same old same old but came into their own at the
end. Although despite their somewhat weak introductions as characters I
did find myself caring about then once that climax came along. There
were scenes with plenty of tension especially involving Erik/Magneto
that had a great deal to do with Fassbender&#x27;s performance. The action
involved was consistently good and also wasn&#x27;t a constant in the film
where the focus was very much on the characters and it also made me
appreciate the action more when it came. The action got better as the
film went on and there was a genuine effort by the film makers to make
a film that could be both exciting in terms of action and make it a
brilliant character story. <br /><br />In summary if you enjoyed the previous X-Men films you should enjoy
this one as it really makes an effort and the performances while not
especially brilliant from the supporting characters were fantastic from
the leads. These performances made me want to see McAvoy and Fassbender
in these roles again. It features an amusing cameo as well.
