2001_September 26 

There's a slight whiff of the classic serial about 'The Claim', the second
Hardy adaption helmed by British director Michael Winterbottom. (His first,
the respectable 'Jude', was a more straightforward transcription of a
classic). Interior scenes are often drawn out into significance, and pauses
are pregnant, in a way that British television viewers will find familiar
from the BBC's dramatisations of Dickens and Austen. But that's not to say
that the film is too worthy or dull. Although some viewers have found the
allegedly slow pace of the first half off-putting, the staccato editing of
the opening outdoor scenes is actually quite brisk (Immediacy is also gained
by the absence of opening credits). Winterbottom's pacing of much interior
dialogue may also be explained perhaps by a concern to create a certain
novelistic gravitas. Ironically in this light it can be argued that the most
important scene in the film - that of Dillon's confession of his secret
shame to his daughter - is done too shortly to create the impact that such a
pivotal revelation needs.<br /><br />Comparisons have been made with Altman's anti-Western 'McCabe and Mrs
Miller', or Cimino's lumbering 'Heaven's Gate' and there are some
similarities, particularly with the latter. But Winterbottom's film has
other concerns at heart and, not surprisingly given the Hardy-inspired plot,
they lay closer to the nineteenth century's obsessions with social propriety
and moral duty rather than the frontier entropy that Altman explores. The
most obvious manifestation of this can be seen in the figure of Dillon (an
excellent, sturdy performance by Peter Mullan), whose iron-backed rule over
'his' town is undermined by the shame of selling his wife and child for
gold, years back. At the end of the film he has of course realised where the
real duty was (ie to his wife and child), and his cache of gold lays
discarded in the ruins of his town.<br /><br />Seen in this light 'the claim' of the film is really more than a
geographical concept, although Dillon's sacrifice of wife and child for a
stake guaranteed a 'strike' emphasises its significance as gauge of worldly
success. Instead it is emotional, worked around the competing 'claims' of
heart and body - most particularly those between Dillon, Lucia then Elena
Burn; Dalglish &amp; Hope; and Bellanger &amp; his 'lady of the community'. These
three relationships develop and mature in tandem in a sequence of scenes and
events that are well handled by the film. As background to such
relationships we find the world of the town prostitutes. Cigar smoking and
socially accepted, they are presented here in refreshingly unsentimental
fashion, an un-hypocritical view that Hardy (if not Hardy's original
readers) might have approved of.<br /><br />This is a film which has considered matters of presentation with care. In
result it has odd moments of great beauty and subtlety, marking it out from
standard Hollywood fare: Dillon and Hope are sitting in the saloon and she
innocently asks him if he has any children. Dillon's face is a mask as he
says no. Satisfied, Hope turns away to look towards the stage where Dillon's
paramour Lucia (Milla Jovovich) is singing. The camera lingers on the two in
the same shot and, for a long couple of seconds, Dillon's eyes flicker back
to Hope. Such a moment is revelatory, expressing more regret and
self-reproach than a hundred conventional lines of dialogue could ever
do.<br /><br />This is a Western with a distinct, wintry feel, magnificently caught by the
cinematography. Internally and externally, the authenticity is convincing,
while some of the more atmospheric scenes, illuminated by candlelight,
reminded this viewer of Kubrick's 'Barry Lyndon'. In addition the film
achieves some startlingly beautiful moments:  when Dillon has the Burn's new
home pulled through the snow their snowy pavilion settling down amongst the
trees or, (in a scene reminiscent of one at the start of the very different
'Mars Attacks!') when a wagon detonates on one of Dalglish's surveying
expeditions, and a blazing horse escapes into the mountains. At the end of
the film too he conjures another strong image, shot from a high angle
overhead, as the men rummage like dogs for Dillon's gold in the snow in the
midst of his burnt town. Complementing these highlights is Michael Nyman's
music, which for my taste, was less obtrusive than some of his other film
work.<br /><br />There are weaknesses of course; the film can seem too deliberate and
niggling questions over pacing persist. Perhaps mirroring the cold landscape
in which they move, some of the characters lack a degree of passion (Hope's
burgeoning love for Dalglish seems particularly repressed). Dillon's love
making with Lucia is an island of sexual activity which only serves to
highlight the relative restraint of relationships elsewhere. Even the public
whipping is curiously detached and passionless (although this may be taken
as an early sign of Dillon's lack of emotion).<br /><br />But this is a film to enjoy and savour, if you enjoy an atmosphere of
literary snow-bound intrigue. All things considered, it's probably the best
Western you're likely to see for a while.<br /><br />
