2001_August 27 

Richard Attenborough's 1992 film CHAPLIN is not a great movie. It is a
rather normal biographical film with high ambitions and a few signs of
brilliance scattered throughout it. First of all, let me say that Robert
Downey Jr. is marvelous as the Little Tramp. At first, it seemed an unlike
choice; he didn't especially LOOK the part. But he really captures Chaplin's
spirit and his energy and his attitudes. While it is certainly a biased
portrayal in his favor (or, rather, it makes J. Edgar Hoover out to be a
complete villain, whereas real life was a smidge more complicated than
that), one cannot help but find themselves somewhat endeared by Chaplin in
this film regardless of his affairs. That too was another problem with the
film; its focus shifted from one thing in his life to another, as if to
cover all the bases.<br /><br />There are some authentically great scenes in this film; his first public
appearance as an entertainer, his sending his mother to the asylum (the
duration of the scenes regarding his youth are eerily atmospheric and good)
and his first real comedy on a tugboat in England as a teenager.<br /><br />The rest of the scenes that really stick out predominantly in my mind are
the ones about his films; Dan Aykroyd appears a few times as Mack Sennett,
and the sequences in his studio in which Charlie becomes the Little Tramp
and proves himself to be who he says he is are astounding. The film really
loses its pace when it tries to cover everything about his personal life,
and indeed some mention of these things is obligatory in a biographical film
about Charlie Chaplin. But what really stands out about the man is not the
man, rather, the films. It's almost as though CHAPLIN were made by a few
filmmakers trying to serve a different individual purpose in their
direction. The performances are magnificent; Downey as said, Aykroyd, Kevin
Kline as Douglas Fairbanks.. a few cameos are made as well.<br /><br />Downey, and the really great scenes, make this film worth watching. Without
those things, I don't know what we'd have as a result.

