2004_June 9 

From late-19th Century vaudeville in England all the way to his return to
the United States when he was honored at the Academy Awards in the
early-1970s, Charlie Chaplin's (Robert Downey, Jr. in an amazing
Oscar-nominated role) life is told. Between that time his older brother
(Paul Rhys) worked to make him an entertainment star, he had a short stay
doing manual labor in Montana, got to California, worked with early
film-makers (Dan Aykroyd and David Duchovny), made some of the most
important films of the 20th Century, received love from Hollywood, angst
from the British, had relationships with a slew of women (true love Moira
Kelly, Marisa Tomei, Penelope Ann Miller, Milla Jovovich, Deborah Moore,
Diane Lane, Nancy Travis and finally true love Kelly again in a different
role), had trouble with J. Edgar Hoover (Kevin Dunn), had friendships with
Hollywood legends Douglas Fairbanks and Mary Pickford (Kevin Kline and Maria
Pitillo), coped with his mother's mental breakdown (played by Chaplin's
real-life daughter Geraldine), weathered wrongful accusations of Communist
tendencies and ultimately had to endure expulsion from the U.S. All this
culminates to form the life of probably the finest cinematic
film-maker/actor of all time. Throughout, the titled individual's
experiences are explained to a novelist (a superb turn by the always perfect
Anthony Hopkins) who is trying to not only write about the then-living
legend, but also understand a life that had innumerable peaks and valleys.
Director Richard Attenborough is no stranger to lavish biographical epics
(anyone remember &quot;Gandhi&quot; in 1982?). He has crafted an amazingly detailed
and interesting film that is honestly a little too deep and complex for many
in mainstream audiences. The picture is a pure joy and a trial
simultaneously. Chaplin was always a person that for one reason or another
became obsessed with his cinematic work and because of this his personal
life suffered for it. And then again maybe his work excelled because of his
sadness outside of his career. Downey, Jr. is an amazing revelation. He has
had lots of trouble outside of his career (ironic, huh?) and has made some
poor decisions on role choices. The stars were aligned perfectly here though
and his out-of-this-world talents finally come to fruition with this one.
Terribly under-rated, &quot;Chaplin&quot; is one of the finest films of the 1990s and
one of the best biographical productions ever produced. 5 stars out of 5.   
  
