2001_June 27 

This is a quirky movie with a first rate cast and a muddled story.  This
story like many of Wim Wenders tails is about the character interactions
with each other in unusual circumstances.  You could not ask for a better
selection of odd balls to be in one movie, all of which were acted to
perfection.  It's the story that holds the characters together that
required
more development.<br /><br />The lead character, Tom Tom (Jeremy Davies) was an innocent child-like
person with no interactive social skills but being someone who gives away
everything he has until there is nothing left.  He is in love with Eloise
(Milla Jovovich) but it is the love of a small child that is only looking
for recognition and has only a slight sexual element.  The story takes
place
in a hotel that is filled with mental outpatients and society misfits who
all have some delusion they are living under which takes up most of their
lives.  A stiffed back FBI man, played to the hilt by Mel Gibson, comes in
to investigate the possible murder of one of the tenants and upsets the
delicate balance of this on-the-edge environment.  Every part of this
ensemble cast is played to perfection by a group of artists (Jimmy Smits,
Peter Storemare, Amanda Plummer, Gloria Stuart, Bud Cort and Julian Sands)
that is the strong point of the movie.  Anybody studying acting should
make
this a highlight picture to go onto a greatest hit list.  Every role is a
little gem.  The problem here is that the total was less than the sum of
its
parts.  The story holding all of these off-the-edge players has major
flaws
like broadcasting a confession tape over public TV before an arrest or the
FBI breaking all the rules in public plus many more.  One major point is
the
fact that all of these completely crazy people can have organized meetings
to discuss strategy and arrive at some semblance of a result.  I wish some
of the corporate meetings I have to attend were so clear-cut.  These
obvious
flaws serve to damage this very complex plot. You are introduced to the
characters through the process of an investigation one by one and they are
played against each other by the FBI man but taken all together the
resulting outcome losses its cohesion.  The people were very complex yet
the
complex plot became fragmented.  The story and soundtrack written by Bono
of
U2 is a much better soundtrack than story.<br /><br />A good movie for acting students and a look into a story line where this
microcosm society is taking advantage of innocent but not a movie I would
like to watch again.

