2005_July 23 
I viewed the 'gasp' unrated version of the high school sex comedy which
renewed interest in &quot;Porky's&quot;-style bathroom humor. My guess is the
'extra' scenes involve Nadia-the-foreign exchange-student's striptease
while spied on by the Internet. But other than that, there's very
little nudity or simulated sex on screen. In fact, just about all the
risqu&eacute; stuff happens off-camera: you hear various noises, someone
bursts into the room, they gasp at what they see, but YOU don't see it.
A famous early scene has a guy with a boner - but it's covered with a
sock. All the bedroom scenes near the end when the guys finally get
lucky are also demure, as the females are all strategically covered up.
Then, of course, there's the infamous 'guy-making-it-with-a-pie' scene.
It's just stupid. The entire movie is rather odd. It's almost like
watching a TV sit-com show which contains some gross, raunchy ideas.
All the kids, especially the males, look like they fell out of a cutesy
'80s TV show. They all talk and act like kids from the '60s or '50s.
Sure, they're obsessed with sex, but so were kids in the '50s. Then
there's the requisite toilet jokes, including the
'guy-has-to-take-a-nasty-dump' scene (in the girls' bathroom, in this
case). In the end, we have a typical coming-of-age tale. I suppose when
you get to be a certain age (like me), you realize this type of stuff
is recycled by Hollywood every 20 years or so. They hype it quite a
bit, of course, and teens &amp; young twenty-somethings flock to it
thinking it's something which has never been seen or done before. In a
sense, maybe they're right. Kids today, like any day, don't believe
anything valid existed more than 10 years back. Everything is
NOW-NOW-NOW, with no thought to history (or film history). Ironically,
it probably would have been better if everyone had forgotten that
&quot;Porky's&quot; and its sequels had ever existed, but somehow or other,
someone manages to dredge up the excrement of low-class material which
used to elicit howls of laughter from brain-dead teens (now long gone)
for the current masses.
