2002_June 11 

&quot;American Pie&quot; breaks all the rules, an explicit sex comedy that
was a huge hit despite a then no-name cast and freshman
director and writer. What else? This has no laughs, at
all
Four completely unbelievable high school boys decide to help
each other lose their virginity before prom...no, not THAT way.
Thomas Ian Nicholas is dating Tara Reid, but cannot bring himself
to say &quot;I love you.&quot; Eddie Kay Thomas takes a cerebral approach to
gettin' some, hoping a rumor he starts himself will get him a mate.
Chris Klein joins the jazz choir and meets Mena Suvari, but finds
himself falling in love with her instead. The main character, Jason
Biggs, is so desperate to have sex he pleasures himself with the
title pastry and inadvertently posts his first humiliating sexual
experience (with a foreign exchange student) on the internet. None
of the high school students seem to have parents, except one
guy's mom who ends up in bed with Thomas. Biggs' has the
walking embarassment Eugene Levy as his dad. Levy was
singled out favorably for a performance that is anything but
funny.
As a matter of fact, none of this is funny. I smiled at the beginning
because Biggs was trying to see some scrambled porn while
&quot;wearing&quot; a tube sock when his parents walk in. Other than that,
nothing. Klein and Suvari have nice chemistry, and almost make
this film half way watchable. While their romance borders on cute
and sweet, it is still simplistic and stunted. I saw more loving
emotions on &quot;Family Matters&quot; after Urkel hit puberty.
I do not believe dumbing down my comedic tastes would have
made this any better. I just do not think a guy drinking a beer with
sperm in it is funny. I just do not think a guy running into a girls'
restroom in an emergency because he was slipped a laxative is
funny. I just do not think a nine year old kid jumping on a bed and
saying the &quot;F&quot; word over and over again is funny. I just do not think
this film is funny.
Adam Herz's script is just &quot;Porky's&quot; turned up to its most
disgusting degree. The characters' actions make little sense, and
are put on screen to get the cheapest of laughs. Shannon
Elizabeth's masturbation scene is a low point in this young
woman's career...but I have not seen the sequel, either. Paul Weitz
directs this as if his master plan was to drain all the energy out of
every scene he pointed his camera at. On the other side of the
camera, Tara Reid is five years older than Thomas Ian Nicholas,
and looks it. The rest of the male cast is so interchangeable, I had
to study the end credits to get character names right.
After three years of hype, &quot;American Pie&quot; does not live up to even
the lowest expectation I held for this- is it too much to ask for at
least ONE laugh from a comedy? Go check your local listings,
&quot;Porky's&quot; must be on the Fox Movie Channel again this month.
This is the unrated version, and contains mild physical violence,
strong profanity, female nudity, brief male nudity, very strong sexual
content, very strong sexual references, and strong adult situations.

