1999_August 9 

American Pie - ***<br /><br />This film tells the story of four male high school friends in Michigan who
enter into a pact with each other to lose their virginity by prom night.
Jim (Jason Biggs) is an average kid who finds himself tongue-tied whenever
he attempts to speak to a beautiful classmate like Nadia (Shannon
Elizabeth,) a foreign exchange student.  Kevin (Thomas Ian Nicholas) has
already gotten to third base with his longtime sweetheart Vicky (Tara
Reid,)
but he cannot figure out how to... steal home.  Oz (Chris Klein) is a
Lacrosse jock who joins the choir in order to meet chicks.  There he meets
Heather (Mena Suvari,) who becomes his duet partner.  Finally there is
Finch
(Eddie Kaye Thomas.)  A true outsider at the school, Finch supplies his
friends with homework assignments and refuses to use public restrooms.
During the weeks preceding prom night, the guys pursue various romantic
entanglements.  Sometimes they find enlightenment, sometimes they find
humiliation, but mostly they find humor.<br /><br />When American Pie arrived in theaters, it was already cloaked in
controversy.  Here is a mass market comedy, geared toward teens, which
barely escapes the dreaded NC-17.  The film is so raunchy that it has been
dubbed &quot;There's Something About Pastry.&quot;  Consider the tag line on the
poster:  &quot;There's Something About Your First Piece.&quot;  Is the movie too
raunchy?  No - but it pushes the envelope.  There are three scenes in
particular which will probably achieve a certain infamy.  Let us quickly
dispense with them so we can move on to the rest of the film.  (1) The
opening scene, in which Jim finds a unique use for a tube sock.  (2) The
party scene, where Stifler (Seann W. Scott) takes a drink of beer only to
find that it is laced with a certain bodily secretion that was taboo in
the
mainstream cinema until 1998.  (3) The scene in which Jim has intimate
relations with an apple pie.  Yes, the aforementioned scenes are crass,
but
are they funny?  Jim's scenes are, because they both end in his being
caught
by his father.  And they both reinforce the awkwardness and desperation of
the teenage male.  Stifler's scene, however, is merely
gratuitous.<br /><br />Perhaps the most surprising thing about American Pie is its warm-hearted
center.  Unlike Porky's or any of the other alleged &quot;sex comedies&quot; of the
80s, American Pie gives all of its characters, both male and female,
well-rounded personalities.  Of course the guys are interested in sex.
But
they're also supportive friends to each other, and they're interest in
women
is multi-dimensional.  Oz, for instance, finds that he falls in love with
Heather.  What started out as a crass conquest turns into a rather sweet
romance.  The picture is also quite funny at times.  I particularly liked
the scenes between Jim and his father (Eugene Levy.)  Another blockbuster
scene is the one in which Jim performs a striptease for Nadia.  What Jim
does not know is that his performance is being beamed across the internet.
American Pie is also successful in the way it presents us with the
standard
teenage stereotypes (jock, nerd, choir girl, band girl, etc.) and then
proceeds to tear them down and show us that all of these characters have
other dimensions.<br /><br />Alas, the film sometimes gets in its own way.  The direction, by Paul
Weitz,
is rather rudimentary, even clumsy at times.  The truly romantic moments
are
undermined by dreary, by-the-numbers musical interludes.  Finally, I felt
that the film sometimes reveled too much in the humiliation of its
characters.  Granted, humiliation is a part of life in high school.  That
is
why I liked Jim's sexual encounters with Nadia, the sock, and the pie;
while
Jim was humiliated, his father would painfully try to explain that &quot;it's
perfectly natural.&quot;  But I felt the movie crossed the line when Stifler
slipped Finch a laxative, leading to an embarrassing encounter in the
women's restroom.  This served absolutely no dramatic purpose.  Likewise,
the character of Sherman (Chris Owen) achieves total public embarrassment
at
the conclusion of the picture.  Dramatically it is meant to be Sherman's
comeuppance, but I felt that it was too harsh - even for him.<br /><br />
