1999_November 7 

Well, what can I say that hasn't already been said?
Now, I know this movie is called a comedy, but I found it a little too
gross
to laugh at sometimes. At any rate, I really like social satire, from
obvious sources like &quot;Saturday Night Live&quot; and &quot;National Lampoon&quot; to more
hidden forms, like anything by Mel Brooks (&quot;Blazing Saddles&quot; especially)
and
&quot;South Park.&quot;
American Pie sounded like a neat idea, because I don't think that the 90's
have been spoofed enough. In the 60s, social satires like THE PRODUCERS
were
around. Then, there was BLAZING SADDLES in '74. The 80s gave us &quot;Fast Times
at Ridgemont High&quot; which I liked alot. But the 90s has given us either 60s
throwbacks or fantasy satire(where the film is satirizing something that
doesn't really exist!)
Now, I know that if someone made a movie(like BLAZING SADDLES) with
negative
images of minorities, or dancing Nazis,there would be riots in Washington.
But maybe, that's where these new comdies and &quot;satires&quot; go wrong. Instead
of
blithely attacking current issues (racism, political corruption, murder),
they go after themes that were cliches back in 1580 when William
Shakespeare
was the world's leading satirist! AMERICAN PIE is nothing more than a more
graphic teen love story.
It's saitre could be seen on a variety of levels-
we could perceive it as a representation of the carefree 90s, where little
can go wrong.
we could perceive it as an attack on the machine age a la MODERN TIMES (the
Internet camera left on in the room)
And we could perceive it as a comment on the voyeurism that goes on today
(the friends eagerly watching the TV hookup to the room,
etc.)
Take it or leave it, AMERICAN PIE was the &quot;big&quot; movie during the summer of
'99-the summer that Hollywood agreed that audiences were ready for scenes
in
a kids' comedy that are more shocking than the most disturbing images of
SCHINDLER'S LIST or SAVING PRIVATE RYAN! My only problem with the whole
thing is that in twenty-five years, AMERICAN PIE will seem just as
shocking-but in a different way. How- I don't know. But, witness BLAZING
SADDLES. I mean, it couldn't get released today because of the racism, but
in 1974 the racism was the least of the problems-it was the language and
the
famous campfire scene. But today, the language heard in that R-rated movie
can be heard in any PG rated movie or TV show, and the campfire scene can
be
found in such children's movies as DENNIS THE MENACE!
So, I wonder, in 25 years, where this movie will stand. The sex scenes
won't
be the problem. The problem will be something that we don't even notice
today. What-I don't know, but it will be interesting to find out what it
will be.
