2001_April 17 

&quot;American Pie&quot; set the standard for teen gross-out/sex comedies of
contemporary society.  It definitely has some unforgetabbly funny moments. 
The scene with the beer--CLASSIC!  A film like this is noted for its
crudeness, but what makes it special is it disciplines the crudeness and
uses it intelligently.  There are few throwaway gags.  And through all the
crudeness, there's a heart.  There's a fine love story that develops via
each character, and that romance develops smoothly and not at the usual
forced Hollywood pace.  And I think that's what made this film memorable. 
Because we see a lot of movies with crude sexual humor left and right.  The
makers of this movie KNOW how to tell a sex joke and any joke that regards
to bodily functions.  I think the scene that caught most people's eyes was
the stripping scene with Jason Biggs and the foreign exchange student Nadia,
played by Shannon Elizabeth.  We do get a shot of her taking her clothes
off, but it's not done in a gratuitous manner.  It then cuts to the
reactions of every computer user in East Falls, checking out the hot naked
chick splattered across their screens.  The way they edited that scene was
really unique.  The film even contains Shannon masturbating, and that's also
not done in a gratuitous manner.  Then we have Jason barging in on her, and
she feels humiliated.  What made that scene unique is SHE made HIM take his
clothes off.  Each comic moment goes smoothly because of the timing,
delivery and all-out design of the sequences.  So these are no mindless gags
we usually are faced with in teen flicks of these kind.  Of course, SCTV
legend Eugene Levy steals the screen in his supporting role.  I don't think
they could've picked anyone better to play that role. <br /><br />&quot;American Pie&quot; is a treat for teens, young adults and--maybe--some older
ones.  I think they should find it quite harmless.  If you have an
overprotective adult in the house who gets outraged if they hear the word
&quot;damn&quot; used--make sure you view this film solo.  But if your parents are
more lenient, there's nothing to worry about.  I'm sure they'll laugh with
you.  I have a cousin who thinks of &quot;American Pie&quot; as the dirtiest film ever
made.  She thinks it should get a triple R rating.  She said, &quot;What kind of
dirty teen films are they making nowadays?  Back in my day, I was raised
with good, wholesome films like &quot;The Breakfast Club&quot; and &quot;16 Candles.&quot;  She
obviously doesn't get out a hell of a lot.  If you're stuck in the same
close-minded mode as my cousin, skip this one.  If not--kick back and have
some fun!!!  
