2000_August 27 

Well eh&#133;&#133;&#133; yes. This is a film that depicts the way teenagers behave in a
great way. The stuff they talk about the way they treat each other and so
on. The only thing that just might not be entirely true here is that kids of
my age (17 &#150; 19) don't actually need to get laid before going to college yet
or maybe that's just because I live in a little hellhole. Here in our town
it is more about kissing (french kissing most of the time). There are
actually people who do that 3 or 4 times a night (both males and females).
Of course coming to the conversational part of the movie, I can't speak for
the girls, but the guys, well they sure like to observe pretty girls, they
sure like to talk dirty and stupid and they sure as hell make some dumb
bet's or pacts. Some may even do pretty dumb stuff, like Jim, but I haven't
witnessed that, I only know the stories (maybe I'm lucky not to have seen
some things). If you don't want to hear this or read this, you should stop
and start reading the next bit after the blank line. This filthy story is
actually from a German film (but I've heard a story about a few drunk guys a
friend of mine knows who did the exact same thing). In the film (and in
reality, according to my friend) a couple of guys lay a piece of bread on
the ground and form a circle around it. Then they started masturbating and
the one that came missed had to eat the slice of bread. Well that is quite
nasty I must say and I feel far worse than what was depicted in American
Pie, for it was intentional.<br /><br />On to the film I must say I was not so disgusted as many of you Americans
might have been. Most of the stuff there seemed pretty natural to me (with a
few exotic outbursts, but hey it is a comedy). But what I really think is
strange about this is that never have I read a review or comment about this
film (or heard from one of my friends) is that there is actually a bit of
romance between all that talk about sex and the gross &#150; out comedy. That I
found particularly good, for it brought some real refreshment tot the film.
Due to the romance it was not the way that there needed to be one crude joke
or action after another, you know. That is something that often happens in
spoofs like The Naked gun. In those films they become so determined to make
you laugh, rather that they totally cross the line and become ridiculous
instead of being funny. They should be looking for something refreshing,
like the romance here in American Pie (which is a film that can hardly be
compared to the naked gun for it is not nonsense). Back to American Pie
though. It was not only the story and the jokes that made this a good and
fun film, the good performance of the young actors and actresses helped a
lot too. They were all good, though there is one actor I must mention
separately and that is Jason Biggs. He was really great. He was the best of
the bunch, for he was the one featured in the funniest parts of the film,
plus he came over like a real funny guy, who was kind of new to everything
and who behaved most like I would have behaved I guess (I think he reminded
me of myself and that's why I liked him so much).<br /><br />This really is a film I can recommend to everyone, for I don't see how you
could be  offended by the jokes and the situations. The only thing there may
be for me to say that this is a film suited for no one under the age of 16
or so (because of the content, although I can imagine I might have liked it
then only because of the dirty jokes and not because I had the feeling that
the way me and my friends behave is in some form the way teenagers around
the world are behaving, maybe even RIGHT NOW). I sure as hell want to see a
sequel and I sure as hell know I'm not going to need force someone to make
American Pie 2.<br /><br />8 out of 10
