2012_March 5 
The Artist takes place in Hollywood in the late 1920&#x27;s and focuses on a
famous silent movie star named George Valentin. He has made quite a
name for himself starring in some very profitable films over the years,
but his career could be put on hold, or end permanently with sound and
talking movies coming into play. The film also focuses on a young
dancer named Peppy Miller, who gets her big break working on the talkie
films, but early in her career she did work with George, and has always
cared much for him and now will also do what she can to save his
career. Because, The Artist is about a silent movie film star and takes
place in the late 1920&#x27;s the film that we are watching is actually a
silent film. Most of the characters say what they have to say through
expressive facial gestures and when there is an important moment of
dialogue it is printed against a black screen in between shots of the
characters. I have read online and even with people I am acquainted
with, I keep hearing that people do not want to see this film for the
simple reason that there is no talking in it. Never mind the fact of
all the awards it has won and all the other great reviews and acclaim
it has gotten. People can not seem to get over the fact that there is
no talking. This did not bother me one bit, but having seen many
wonderful silent films from the 1920&#x27;s, or even earlier, this did not
bother me because it does not impact, or take away from the story, it
is basically just a different way of presenting it. I think if those
skeptics were to see The Artist, their opinion would change quite
quickly because this is such a delightful film that I would really find
it hard for people not to like it. The film is very entertaining and
captivating and the performances by the entire cast are all very good
here. Yes, there is no talking, but they convey what they have to say
and their feelings that come out of each scene with great posture and
body language that once you get used to it, you do not miss the talking
at all. The black and white cinematography looks great here as well as
the costumes and sets of the era it takes place in. I also quite
appreciated the story behind the movie and dealing with silent films
drastically coming to a halt when sound is finally available and major
studios jump at the chance to make talkie films in order to cash in on
what they figure will be a huge success and the way of the future.
Watching a film like The Artist, in 2012 we all know that the talkie
films did become a huge success and that is how we watch films, or have
watched them from that point on throughout the decades. It doesn&#x27;t
focus on this, but later on you have to wonder about what will happen
to the characters when Technicolor comes in and films are no longer in
black and white. I don&#x27;t think that is quite as big an issue to people
as sound because we still occasionally today have films made in black
and white that try to capture a style and time period of long ago. I
also wonder if maybe in his own way director, Michel Hazanavicius is
also commenting on the current state of film in general these days.
With the closure of some major video store chains it is now getting
very hard to rent films and everything seems to be going over to
digital. If we want to see a film we now have a hard time just going
out and renting one, when the now preferred format is downloading off
the internet and using streaming services to do so. I think eventually
the few remaining stores and chains that even sell videos, DVDs and
Blu-Rays will also unfortunately die out and again everything will be
made digital. It will be a great convenience to many, but also to many
a great inconvenience. People still seem to enjoy actually getting out
and watching films at a movie theatre, but who is to say that that will
last forever and if it one day soon may be available for people to
watch on their own home systems as well. For us with any major hobbies
such as film, or even music, the future of this media can be scary. The
Artist tells a story with so much feeling and drama, but at the same
time with a lot of humour and romance that it is a joy to behold. I
absolutely loved this film from it&#x27;s wonderful and feel good story to
the great acting, directing and writing. I did not find that what they
tried to do here with making it a silent film was gimmicky, or done to
sell more tickets, or be self indulgent. I found it a very ingenious
way of capturing the movies of old and bringing a part of them back to
life for us. The film is entertaining, charming and great to look at
and with great performances. Last year really seemed to pay a lot of
tribute to classic cinema with Hugo and now The Artist, and I hope more
people will give films like The Artist a chance and older silent films
in general. This film was the little film that could. It came out of
nowhere and won the attention and acclaim of critics and awards circles
and also won my heart over as well. I absolutely loved every minute of
The Artist. A classic in the making and one of the best films of 2011.
