2012_January 12 
With 3-D movies becoming so ubiquitous, the magic of cinema is wearing
off as more and more humdrum flicks are poured at us from every box
office orifice. Previously, CGI perfection and action sequence bombasts
became formulaic and jaw-achingly dull for the average cinema goer.
Thankfully a wonderful piece of film making has emerged in the form of
The Artist. This is modern cinematography stripped bare of all whistles
and bells: no 3-D, no CGI, no colour, barely any spoken dialogue, not
even filmed in wide-screen. This, far from holding back any enjoyment
of the theatregoer&#x27;s experience, rekindles their long lost passion for
cinema in its pure form. Indeed, the film is set in Hollywood(land) of
the 1920s and 1930s, straddling the last major technological milestone
in cinema since the digital revolution: the advent of talking pictures.<br /><br />Every player in The Artist is, necessarily in a film with almost no
talking, visually arresting. Jean Dujardin cuts a suave dash as George
Valentin, a huge silent star unwanted in a new era of vocal acting.
With landscaped chin, lacquered hair and moustache clipped to an
eyebrow pencil line, Dujardin&#x27;s face and physicality fascinates
throughout the film&#x27;s 100 minutes. His acting is comic without being
farcical; tragic without being hysterical. His co-star, budding blossom
Peppy Miller, played by an engaging B&#xE9;r&#xE9;nice Bejo, remains charming,
demure and level-headed even when achieving the heights of talkie fame.
She never forgets the role of Valentin in her success and watches,
while trying to attenuate, his private demise as he witnesses her very
public ascension to super-stardom. Bejo does this with an unbent
sensitivity, her engaging mouth filling the screen with her smile or
quivering with unfettered sadness at the man left behind.<br /><br />The supporting actors, although less physical, all have faces full of
depth and character. Even a flash appearance from Malcolm McDowell as a
jobbing extra delivers a comic vignette full of facial subtlety and
wrinkled brilliance.<br /><br />The director, Michel Hazanavicius, cannons a well aimed, pared down
shot straight to the emotional core, uncluttered with dialogue. The
depth of the monochrome montage screams sophistication and the
soundtrack swells and dips with the action on screen. Hazanavicius
brilliantly portrays an enormous sense of fun and excitement from the
start with clever editing and use of movement to compensate for the
lack of Foley sound or speech, which is never a disadvantage in this
film. This makes almost every moment edge-of-seat tense which does lose
fervour in the middle, possibly in order for the audience to catch
breath before being shot at again during the dramatic ending. The
director himself has been quoted as saying that he has used the silent
format not as an homage to bygone days but a storytelling tool. He does
just that, making an amazingly refreshing new film and helping
audiences of all ages to rediscover the raw and beautiful art of cinema
at its purest.
