2012_March 10 
More than seldom I can feel that award shows tend to praise the kind of
special, small production and unknown films. When one first got news of
The Artist when it started winning all these prises one could
definitely get the feeling that it was that kind of critically praised
film that the generally movie audience would pretty much ignore. I mean
a black and white silent film today doesn&#x27;t sound like the kind that
would make many hundred millions on the international arena. But when
it after winning those academy awards and getting a cinema release
where I live I decided I would give it a chance and it also felt like
quite different from anything else I have seen in cinema. Turns out I
was more pleasantly surprised than I have been by a movie in years. The
film is absolutely brilliant with many successful factors. First and
for most the acting is outstanding. Jean Dujardin really deserved that
Oscar and the supporting actors are also great. As a silent film it
would be essential that the acting is great. Even if there is some
subtitles at times it is not very often for most the film relies on the
actors managing to make the viewers understand what is going on and
what the characters are feeling. They do it brilliantly. There is
however background music all the way through the film. It would feel
pretty blank if it would be totally soundless for 100 minutes. The
music also is used to tell the feeling and tone of what is going on.
Like when Valentin is expressing shock the music is high and dramatic.
The story is both a homage to the silent era and a great tale. It&#x27;s a
very emotional story that really grips hold of you. But there is quite
a lot of humour as well. Still it is greatly considered to not go so
far as being silly and taking away focus from the plot. Hearing the
description of the film as a silent, black and white, comedy-drama I
could easily fear that it would feel slow and overdrawn. It may just be
my preconception that unique dramas are like that but I was pleasantly
surprised that it was not so in any way. The running length at less
than two hours is perfect. Over all the film fits perfectly in the
middle, not overdrawn and not rushed. The Artist is a brilliant movie.
The opening is kind of slow for a while but one soon gets into it and
after it never let&#x27;s go. While I would not quite praise it as a
masterpiece The Artist is a close to perfect movie 9/10.
