1999_July 1 

The first two thirds of The Matrix are simply stunning. The visuals are
unlike any movie, the Wachowski brothers have created a roller coaster ride
with only a few stops (although those stops are just as beautiful as the
rest of the movie - I especially liked the sensitive display of Neo's
healing process after he has wakened to the real world). The premise of the
movie - that the world might be nothing more than an illusion fed to our
heads - is a bit of a science fiction clich&eacute;, but it can still be used to
make an excellent sci-fi film (and most of the time The Matrix does just
that). The acting is good, even Keanu Reeves manages to be credible, by
acting as little as possible. Carrie-Anne Moss is also good, though her
screen time could have been longer. The one who really steals the show,
though, is Laurence Fishburne. His portrayal of Morpheus is excellent, I
especially like the little touches that separate his Matrix persona from
the
Morpheus of the real world. To sum it up: technically speaking The Matrix
is
nearly perfect.<br /><br />So, the set is excellent, the players are good, and the speed is
breathtaking - what's there to complain about? The problem, as in so many
other big budget science fiction movies, is the ending. Don't get me wrong,
I did enjoy the last third as well, but only on a physical level, not
intellectual. The shoot-out in the lobby is one of the greatest action
scenes cinema has ever produced, but that's all it is - a great action
scene. The deeper elements of the plot (such as the agony agent Smith feels
having to live in a world populated by humans) are left unexplored when the
rumble begins. Scenes like Keanu Reeves yelling &quot;My name is NEO!&quot; (when
Smith calls him &quot;Anderson&quot;), or Carrie-Anne Moss reviving Neo with a kiss
make my clich&eacute;-o-meter bounce up to ten. And why, oh why does a film with
such potential have to end in a kung-fu fight? After seeing Bound, the
Wachowski brothers' previous film, I had high expectations for The Matrix,
but in the end it was clear that the low-budget Bound would still remain
the
better one of these two. Big money doesn't always equal conventionality,
but
in this case, sadly, it does.<br /><br />Let's just hope that the success of The Matrix gives the Wachowski brothers
the courage to make movies which are satisfying both visually AND
intellectually. They certainly are capable of it.

