1999_April 26 

Alright, I've read some of these comments, good and bad, and I must say that
those who have been panning it seem to be missing something.  At least,
that's my opinion.  The Matrix may not be the deepest film in the world, but
it is arguably thought-provoking.  My friends and I were making jokes about
whether or not what we were doing was real after we saw it, which speaks for
the movie's lasting effect.  The writing is crisp, the action is completely
engrossing, the effect are mind-boggling, and even Reeves is
palatable.
You may give the argument that it is a rehash of sci-fi flicks and shows,
but how can we get around a bit of inspiration these days in movies?  So
much has been done, what's wrong with being inspired if the end product
doesn't come off as a copy?  The key advantage of The Matrix over so many
other sci-fi action pics these days is that is IS original.  People just
don't seem to want to accept that.
Every year, after I've seen more and more over-wrought, no-brained action
films, I get scared that nothing will excite me again, but then something
like The Matrix comes along and restores my faith in the industry.  The
effect are so well integrated and the surroundings so compelling that you
can't help but get sucked into the screen---if you let yourself.<br /><br />And let's face it:  gratuitous violence is lots of fun and perfectly
harmless if you're a stable individual.  It's an R rated movie.  If you
don't want your impressionable kids to see it, then don't let them.  It's
that easy.  And please don't dare blame society's ills on film.  People have
been killing each other for no good reason for a long, long time.  We don't
need any more scapegoats.<br /><br />The Matrix is one of the finest action films I have experienced.  It
combines elements of John Wayne westerns, Blade Runner, Aliens, The X-Files,
choice Bruce Lee kung fu, and other fine examples of various genres into an
ultimately beautiful conglomeration of the best parts of each kind of film.
The direction and editing is incomparable.  The vision, time and dedication
behind it from its creators is its driving force.
I'm ready to see it again, and I'll be ready to buy it, as soon as I get a
proper home theater system.
