1999_April 13 

I admit initially being drawn to see The Matrix primarily to see the
doe-eyed Keanu Reeves make his Hollywood comeback, as well as take in
Laurence Fishburne's latest fine performance.  I expected to see an
entertaining movie, high on special effects and low on plot (a la
Godzilla,
but not as pathetic).  But I was pleasantly surprised at how much I
enjoyed
the movie, not only on the eye-candy level, but more importantly because
the
directors actually assumed that the majority of the movie-going public has
some brains and likes to be intellectually stimulated.  What is really
surprising is that the Wachowski brothers managed to do this using an
action
picture as the backdrop.  I was totally blown away during and after the
film
(a very rare occurrence), and I can't wait to see it again.  With only a
couple of exceptions, I have never before wanted to see any movie more
than
once.  The Matrix is an exception.
Beautiful to watch as he is, Keanu Reeves was totally believable as Neo.
Naysayers claim that he can't act and that he wasn't the best person for
the
role, but I beg to differ.  Reeves was able to pull the leading role off,
not only because of his acting ability, but also because of the fact that
he's been out of the public eye for awhile.  His long absence makes the
viewer want/have to reacquaint themselves with Reeves as they
simultaneously
get acquainted with Neo, which helps to make the storyline more buyable
and
digestible.  Can you imagine, say, the over-exposed Leonardo DiCaprio,
Brad
Pitt or Will Smith in the part of Neo? I can't, even though each was
supposedly an early contender for the Neo role. In the cases of Leo, Brad
and Will, their big Hollywood personas would have only distracted the
audience from a rather inventive plot and story arc.  Reeves'
participation
allowed the audience to absorb the more complicated aspects of the story
line and to pick up on the &quot;oh, so that's what that means&quot; nuances
discovered in the second half of the movie.  Carrie-Anne Moss holds her
own
as Trinity's I'm-a-woman-but-if-you-mess-with-me-I'll-kick-your-butt
persona.
Secondly, it was very refreshing to see at least four ethnic actors take
on
important (starring and co-starring) roles in a film that tried to take a
peek into the future, particularly for a science fiction film where
viewers
are typically hard pressed to find anyone who doesn't look like Leonardo
(a
la Starship Troopers, and for the most part Star Wars, Billy Dee Williams
and Samuel L. Jackson not withstanding).  It was also impressive to know
that the directors/producers decided to cast Laurence Fishburne as
Morpheus,
the pivotal, totally authoritative, new millennium
prophet who really drives the story.  Marcus Chong (Tank) and Julian
Arahanga? (Apoc), put in rare, non-stereotypical performances as
tech-savvy,
anti-Matrix rebels, while the influential part of the Oracle is played by
veteran actress Gloria Foster. Finally, a Hollywood film that doesn't
resort
to the usual ethnic drug dealer-criminal stereotypes, and finally a sci-fi
film that actively promotes the idea that people of color will actually
have
a presence in the future.
Lastly, the special effects were just mind-blowing.  I was
totally
freaked- out (in a good way) by Trinity's mid-air preying mantis kick,
Neo's
back- bending bullet-time sequence and Neo and Morpheus's balletic judo
match.  Other people in the theater actually &quot;oohhed,&quot; and &quot;aahhed&quot; along
with me during these breath-taking visuals.  Sure The Matrix has flaws,
but
what movie doesn't?  I can't wait to see this again. And there's
definitely
room for at least one sequel. Rating: 10 out of 10.<br /><br />
