1999_April 4 

I take that back.  This very well might be one of the best movies
ever...period.  
I had seen a program about it on HBO, and I KNEW that I had to see this
movie.  I thought that even if the story sucked, I'd pay eight bucks to see
the special effects.  Well, those effects were well worth my money.  And as
an added bonus, the plot kicked butt.  I've seen it before in other mediums,
but never before was it this intense and clear and focused. <br /><br />Another bonus was the actors.  I cannot express my feelings about how fine
of a job those people did.  They trained hard and it shows.  It takes real
dedication to do what they did.  And beyond the kung fu, the actors can ACT.
I was nearly in tears for some parts.
This movie does what it is supposed to do.  It entertains, it makes the
viewer feel and care for the people on screen, and it kicks the viewer in
the butt many, many times.
This may sound really stupid, but there are some movies that make me feel
&quot;enlightened&quot;, and The Matrix is one of them.  By far this movie is at the
top for 1)Sci-Fi 2)Action 3)Drama 4)intense involved plot 5)visual
effects.
I can't remember another movie with such an involved plot that pulled it off
well.  This movie has everything.  Kung Fu (with some of the coolest shots
I've ever seen), Stunning Visual Effects, Beautiful Acting, Big Guns, Big
Emotions, A Deep, Profound Meaning (listen to the dialogue...it all rings
true), Red, Sticky Goo (okay, I admit, I'm weird), Wonderful Sets, Great
Costume (can I thank the costumer for this?), Big Stunts (many done by the
actors themselves), A Kick Butt Soundtrack (which I'm listening to right
now), Keanu Reeves in All Black Clothes, Toting Big Guns, Carrie-Anne Moss
in All Black, Toting Big Guns (This is important!  She's a warrior and a
woman and balances the two with ease!  There needs to be more of this type
of character in film!), Laurence Fishburne in One of His Finest Words (when
I was talking about acting before, Mr. Fishburne is just plain awesome). <br /><br />Give a big hand to the Wachowski Brothers.  They rock in a hardcore
way.<br /><br />In short, I loved this film.  I plan to see it again.  I feel sorry for
those people who aren't going to see this film.  It's one of those films
that captivate you and forces you think about it weeks after you left the
theater.
Go see it.  You'll be pleased.  I was!
