2000_December 30 

Now that we have had the pioneering-stages of film-making, and passed
through the first stages of computer-animation and graphics creating the
illusion of another world within the one we live in, life and movies could
have become exciting. But in fact the results are pretty disappointing.
Hollywood bores us almost to death with re-makes and re-makes of re-makes
and the results are almost consistently worse than the originals which at
least, but certainly not only, had the profits of being original. This
case
isn't much different. The producers should be given credit in creating a
fantasy and doing it convincingly, as well as doing a good job on dealing
with some of the special effects and stunts. Fighting scenes are not too
bad
either, but lack involvement, and could very rarely be called exciting.
This
makes the Matrix certainly not a thriller or good action movie. In this
way
the Matrix is disappointing due to a weak plot, a badly told story that
suffers from a lack of story-telling abilities, involvement, surprise and
continuity. This movie could make a nice prequel to a series, but a lot
needs to be done to really make this a success: better and deeper
characters, a good story-line, a more realistic view of mankind, better
directing and more involvement with characters and less attention drawn on
special effects could make the sequels a good start for a new kind of
sci-fi
movies. The cast seems good enough, and should not be blamed for the way
the
story evolves in this movie; one only gets the idea, certainly after
having
seen the extras on the dvd and 'the making of'-documentary the attention
of
the directors and producers was drawn almost totally towards the 'Kung-fu'
and special effects this way creating a life-like comic-book sci-fi movie.
Some involvement of George Lucas could do a lot of good to this movie,
even
if only consulting him on creating and telling stories. But he certainly
would not have been proud of this movie if the result would be this
disappointing on so many points.
Referring to the beginning of this comment, the Matrix is hugely
overrated,
but over-looking the releases of the last few years this should not be a
surprise... people are not exactly spoiled with good movies, and if trying
to be original could be rewarded, this movie should earn an award for
maybe
a not fully successful, but at least one of the most successful attempts
to
be original of the last few years. Maybe only exceeded by the largely
underrated 'Dark City'.
