2003_January 3 

Admittedly when the Matrix first came out over three years ago it didn't
leave much of an impression. Maybe because I watched it with friends, but
recently I got it on DVD. Wow. Normally I don't like action films;
Terminator and its sequel barely registered. But what makes the Matrix great
is the story and the dialogue. I've seen that many people have pointed out
that Dark City and Blade Runner were superior to the Matrix. Yes, Blade
Runner has a better plot and deeper psychological value, but I was THAT
close from falling asleep during it and it didn't contain one decent action
sequence (to my memory). Plus I've never heard of Dark City till
now.<br /><br />One big problem with all the Matrix's story is that it doesn't know where to
go with the sybolism floating around. All the Biblical references which have
already been mentioned 10,000 times, Alice in Wonderland, Neo as a new Jesus
Christ...and? What's the point? Don't get me wrong, I love the Matrix for
what it is, a brilliant action movie, but the thousands of people who claim
that the Matrix is all about 'the new Messiah' makes me smile, somewhat
sheepishly.<br /><br />Nevertheless, one has to admit the Matrix's plot is very original. The
effects are of course astounding, even three years on, despite the numerous
spoofs of them. The characters are definitely flat... but leagues ahead of
any other action movie in existence. Agent Smith was in fact my favourite
character, what with him displaying the most human qualities; it was a shame
about the ending (though rumours abound that he will return in the
sequels).<br /><br />The thing about the Matrix is that it is too contemporary to be taken
seriously. I mean, twenty years from now (Matrix fanatics take note), no-one
is going to care about it. They'll probably laugh, just like I did at Hal,
the talking computer from 2001. I don't think it's a masterpiece of
film-making, but give it its due, it's a good action film with a solid
script. Eagerly awaiting the sequels (a car chase... on a freeway... in the
Matrix...) less than six months away, I give the original 8 out of
10.
