2001_January 2 
A lot of people have rated it as the best movie they've ever seen. I
ask all those people to start thinking of other great movies of the
past, even if you restrict yourself to science fiction movies - think
of the characters you fell in love with, and the performers who brought
it all to life - then try to imagine some of those actors, those
characters appearing in equivalent parts in The Matrix. Think of
Harrison Ford's Rick Deckard (from Blade Runner) as either Neo or
Morpheous. Think of Sigourney Weaver's Ellen Ripley (from the Alien
series). Think of the witty dialogue and excellent character
interaction of writers Joss Whedon or JJ Abrams. You can think up your
own examples. Then compare it to what we've actually got in The Matrix.
It just doesn't stand up.<br /><br />Storyline: You can see that at the script stage, the concept works very
well as being a marvellous &quot;coup de cinema&quot;, when Neo wakes up and the
&quot;real world&quot; is revealed for the first time. But the advance publicity
told you all that before you even got to see the movie. I don't believe
in picking holes in plot points, unless they rely too heavily on
coincidence - it's not an easy thing to build a foolproof scenario to
achieve the high concept you have for the movie. But I will say that
generally in any movie you are supposed to be on the side of the good
guys. In this situation, however, all I could see was that Morpheous
and his friends were determined to wake the whole world up to the fact
that they are living in an enormous dank sewer, under a gunmetal sky,
with apparently no other living creatures or vegetation on which to
survive. Or they could stay in The Matrix (what we call &quot;real life&quot;)
and remain &quot;slaves&quot;. I was with Cypher's (Joe Pantoliano) side all the
way - better fake steak that's better than the real thing, than
physically real but otherwise totally unappetising food which resembled
some kind of edible snot.<br /><br />Regarding the action, I have two points to make: a) If I see one more
helicopter flying alongside a glass skyscraper, so help me.... b) There
is such a thing as &quot;too good&quot;. I originally wrote how pathetic it was
that high speed fight scenes were so obviously speed ed up film. I now
know that in fact the film wasn't speed ed up, but Reeves and Fishburne
were moving so fast that it looked like it was. A little slower and
they'd have had ten times the impact.<br /><br />Here was a film where the dialogue could have done with some serious
polishing by a script-doctor. Imagine, if you will, if Sean Connery had
been cast as Morpheous - can you see him saying the bland
dull-as-ditchwater stuff that Fishburne was trying to make so much of?
No of course not, and Connery would have made sure of it by calling in
his favourite script doctors (like he did for 'The Rock'). Why didn't
the studio step in? Did they make a mistake and think they had the Coen
brothers instead of the Wachowski brothers? There was no
characterisation whatsoever - we didn't know anything more about
Morpheous, Trinity or Neo at the end than we knew at the beginning.
About the only fully rounded character was Cypher (which was why he got
all my sympathy). Trinity's interactions with Neo, in particularly,
needed to be ten times better to achieve anything like the meaning and
emotional fulfilment for the audience that that relationship merited.<br /><br />The remainder of the cast did their best with poor material. Keanu
Reeves did what he always does. I don't know what it is, but it isn't
acting. Reeves is a star because he infallibly picks smash-hits to be
in (Speed, The Devil's Advocate, The Matrix), so they keep sending him
scripts. But I cannot think of a single Keanu Reeves star-vehicle which
wouldn't have been better with anybody else who just had some presence
and charisma.<br /><br />I'd like to deal with the deficient morality of the film. It's very
easy to say &quot;It's an action movie, so lots of bad guys will need to be
killed&quot;, but 'Terminator 2' for example, is a very violent action film
which has a moral sense. In 'The Matrix' not one of the bad guys are
killed (they are only software constructs, after all), but lots and
lots of innocent policemen and security guards are just wiped out, and,
what is more, by the supposed good guys! Morpheous tries to explain
this away by telling Neo to regard every human as an enemy, but this
doesn't expiate the wholesale bloodbath which occurs when Neo and
Trinity are just trying to get into a building. Why wasn't that
sequence put together as a Kung Fu spectacular, with all the human
opponents merely stunned? The last shot of that scene shows just the
elevator as the doors shut on Neo and Trinity, and broken bricks and
plaster and all the devastation which has just been wreaked - there is
not a single dead body in the shot. This sanitised view of what
constituted a totally unjustified massacre on the part of our heroes
failed to make me feel better about what they had just done.<br /><br />I think it's easy to get carried away when a big-budget movie has an
interesting and (relatively) original premise, and the visual effects
do a good job of showing it off - but these factors do not make a truly
satisfying film.
