2002_December 3 

It seems as though many people want to disagree with the thought of the
Matrix being similar to the Bible.  What's to disagree about?  Neo
reflects
God, he was the chosen one, as Jesus Christ was chosen.  He was born
again.
Cypher reflected Judas, he betrayed God and his friends, just as Judas
did
to God.  Morpheus reflected John the Baptist out of anyone, he stood by
Neo,
he was willing to give his life for him.  But Neo saved him, he saved the
world. Just as God did, well actually God died on the cross for our sins,
and left us with the decision on whether or not we want to be a Christ
follower, and go to heaven.  Our choice is heaven or hell, maybe its life
or
the matrix?  This is a difficult parallel to compare because there very
different, but also reflect each other very similarily.  Trinity reflects
Mary who is Jesus' mother.  What else could the matrix compare to that
fits
as well then this?  When Neo was born again, it was just like a baby, he
was
put in a little sack with tubes coming out of him, seeming like umbilical
cords, then flushed out and dumped out and entered the world. He was in
shock because he was in a comfortable place until he these cords were
ripped
out and basically birthed him.  Does this not sound similar to birth?
Birth is a very painful process no doubt, It seemed like Neo&iexcl;&macr;s escapade
was
also painful, and definitely reflected birth.  After his birth, he was
taught things, he grew up and was called to be the one he would be the
leader of the Matrix.  He saved everyone by killing the agents. He had so
much power, as does God.  They both risked their lives to save the ones
of
others.  Well actually God did risk his life, he died no questions asked
for
his children. Us.  If u read John 3:16 in the Bible it says,  For God so
loved the world, that he gave his one and only son ( Jesus ) that whoever
believes in him shall not perish but have everlasting life.  God did
this,
but it is our decision now.  Neo did this,. He conquered the Matrix now
it
would be  the lives of other people to make there decision.  I'm pretty
sure that is how the movie went.  I've only seen it twice, its very hard
to
understand, as is the Bible.  Its very hard to understand, but I think
that
is what is great about this movie.  I guess there are a lot of things for
people to wonder about this movie, but I think this movie mostly reflects
the Bible and Jesus' life.
