2000_August 14 

     Okay, I know a lot of heat is going to come my way for saying this, but
I'm ready.  So, here goes:  I did NOT like this movie!  I'm not saying that
it's terrible, just that it didn't move me the way that it seems to have
touched some people's lives.  The perpetually perplexed Keanu Reeves is
Thomas aka Neo, an office grunt/computer hacker who is recruited by the
mysterious Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne)to free humanity from enslavement by
machines.  It seems that the world that we are living in is all an illusion
provided by free-thinking computers who are using people as batteries (Can I
be an ENERGIZER?  They last longer).  The only thing standing between
humanity and totally servitude are the Agents, led by the soulless Agent
Smith (played by Hugo Weaving in a good performance).  Agents are the only
ones who seem to have the ability to alter the reality around them, making
them able to do fantastic things like dodge bullets and the like.  Neo is
shown that he, too, can alter the world around him when Morpheus jumps from
one roof to another a block away (to which Keanu gives his signature line: 
&quot;Whoa!&quot;).  He is then trained in hand-to-hand combat, spaceship-piloting and
the use of high-calibre automatic firearms.
     This seems to provide the film with its strong suit:  Dazzling stunts
and special effects.  However, I found the story to be just a little too
pretentious.  I realize that there is a lot of symbolism within the story
(most of it cribbed from the New Testament), but, while watching the movie
and getting the messages of the movie, I half expected to see signposts
appear saying CAUTION! METAPHORS AHEAD!  I did get a kick, however, out of
the street intersections mentioned in the film where all of the &quot;exits&quot;
were:  They are actually streets in Chicago, the Wachowski brothers' (and
my) hometown.  As I said before, the special effects and stuntwork are
fabulous.  In fact, I thought the film should have received Oscar
nominations for its Art Direction and Costumes.  Beyond that, I thought THE
MATRIX was nothing more than the longest, most expensive GAP commercial ever
made.  For a better handling of this type of material, I suggest two films
that could be combined to make a better MATRIX:  THE LAST DRAGON (for it's
metaphysical message and martial arts action) and DARK CITY (for it's
handling of a scary fantasy city under siege).
     Okay, let the brickbats and/or bouquets fly . . .
!
