2011_June 1 
What you need to know about this movie before you go and see it.

1. Michael Fassbender and James McAvoy are superb. Each one, alone, 
would have made the movie terrific, but together? Forgetaboutit! Every 
step of the way, every scene, every emotion, these two men own the 
movie and watching their bromance is a treat from start to finish. Make 
no mistake about it, even when the world is on the brink of utter 
destruction what really matters is how these two men relate to one 
another. And when you watch the movie, you will care.

2. Everyone in the cast is good. Kevin Bacon has never been better, and 
Jennifer Lawrence is wonderful. Rose Byrne and January Jones aren't 
given much to do, Ray Wise and Michael Ironside only have a few short 
lines, but - across the board - the entire cast are a delight.

3. The story is tight. You've got a bad guy with a plan, which he sets 
about executing in A/B/C fashion. Against him, the good guys work 
together. Their motivations are different, of course, but they pretty 
much want him stopped so they unite. That's it.

4. Charles and Erik are fascinating characters. They debate. And 
viewers can debate endless about them, and about who is right, etc. As 
you watch you desperately wish they could stay friends, but you 
understand why they ultimately can't. Even if they themselves, in these 
early days, don't understand it yet. To have that so perfectly captured 
in a Summer Blockbuster movie is part of what makes this a treat and a 
future classic. But, aside from their relationship to each other, the 
movie takes time to make each of them interesting in his own right. We 
get to see Charles as a teacher, for instance, and come to understand 
how he impacts upon the lives of those he tutors. Some of Erik's best 
moments (away from Charles) are in his comments to Mystique about her 
appearance, making it clear that this man has more to him than the 
shadow of his past.

4. Most supporting characters have very little screen time. But that's 
okay, since this isn't THEIR story, really. Of the bunch, it is 
Mystique and Beast who are best served. Both have terrific character 
arcs that - in a lesser X-Men movie - might have been the highlight of 
the film. Here, their stories serve as quality background material to 
the main event (Charles and Erik). Beyond that, we just learn enough 
about everyone to know what they can do and like them a little bit, 
mostly through their banter and most obvious character traits. Once 
scene where most of the supporting characters are clearly terrified 
will certainly go a long way towards making you care about them for the 
rest of the movie. On the downside: Shaw's two henchmen don't get 
ANYTHING to do except use their powers, and at the end of the story we 
know as much about Emma Frost as we did at the beginning. But these are 
the exception, not the rule.

5. Visually, this movie is a treat. The FX are good, no surprise, but - 
much better - the actual sets/costumes are beautiful. Whether it's a 
remote CIA lab or a lap-dance club, whether it's the Magneto helmet or 
Mystique's everyday clothes, you are always admiring 'the look' of 
what's on screen.

6. There are action scenes all during the movie, but - having said that 
- the movie builds as it goes. The first half is more 
story-heavy/character-heavy so that when the action REALLY starts we 
care about everyone. And, again, it works. Even with the scant details 
given their characters, when Banshee and Havok (for example) go into 
battle you are invested in them to a certain degree.

7. There are surprises. Deaths, betrayals, cameos and name-dropping. 
But, as well as being cool, all of this makes perfect sense for the 
story/universe of the movies.

Superb! Rock-solid script, two amazing lead performances (the film is 
basically a bromance). Haven't been this excited about the X-Men 
franchise since X2: X-Men United.


