2011_August 13 
I just saw this wonderful film in the perfect place, Montparnasse in
Paris. It was showing at the Lucernaire at 53 rue Notre Dame des
Champs, that cosy and quaint cineplex with its own caf&#xE9; and theatres.
Afterwards, my wife and I strolled up to the Dome and sat on the
pavement (as it was summer), looking across at the Rotonde and sipping
vermouth cassis, the favourite drink of the old Montparnassians of the
1920s. Then we walked back past the apartment of Gertrude Stein on rue
de Fleurus, and Hemingway&#x27;s last Paris apartment on Rue Ferou, as well
as Man Ray&#x27;s studio in the same little street (though they did not live
there at the same time). All three of these people appear in the film.
Kathy Bates is sensational as Gertie, and sits beneath her own portrait
by Picasso, in a salon just like in the old photos of it. The film is
full of cultural in jokes which those unfamiliar with the period will
not get, and period details. For instance, Hemingway says he likes
Picasso&#x27;s work &#x27;but he is no Miro&#x27;. Woody must have studied Hemingway&#x27;s
A MOVEABLE FEAST very closely and knew that the only major painting
Hemingway was able to afford in Paris was &#x27;The Farm&#x27; by Joan Miro, the
painter whom he admired above all others. At one point the lead actor
Owen Wilson is told he has just been dancing with Djuna Barnes, and he
wisecracks &#x27;No wonder she wanted to lead.&#x27; Only those aware of who
Djuna Barnes was and of her inclinations would get the joke. The story
features a young American, played brilliantly by Owen Wilson, who takes
the place of Woody, who is now too old to play his own lead character,
who visits Paris in modern times. He is accompanied by the fianc&#xE9;e from
hell, played hellishly by Rachel McAdams with such fervour that one
wants to strangle her as well as her horrible parents. Wilson is a
writer and a dreamer who begins to go on late walks around Paris, with
which he becomes infatuated. He goes to a certain magic place where at
the stroke of midnight (hence the film&#x27;s title), an old car drives up
and he is urged to get in. This car transports him back into the golden
age of the Montparnasse Era. He meets Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald, Cole
Porter, Josephine Baker, and many of the other leading cultural figures
who were there at the time. As my wife said, &#x27;it is a ridiculous idea
but it works because it comes from the heart&#x27;. Rarely has Woody risked
any filmic device quite so hazardous as this. The fact that he
successfully pulls off this outrageous idea is a testament to his skill
as a filmmaker. He both wrote and directed this film, which clearly
means a great deal to him. (He also must have played the clarinet in
that wonderful jazz at the beginning and end of the film soundtrack,
though he modestly kept his name off the credits.) My wife and I
thought we recognised the magic place where the car picked Owen Wilson
up every night, so the next evening we strolled over there to confirm
our suspicions, and we were correct. It is the charming little street
called rue de la Montagne Saint Genevieve, in the 5th arrondissement,
near the Pantheon, and on the right (which you cannot make out in the
film) is my favourite little classical music CD shop, La Dame Blanche.
The steps on which Owen Wilson sits are those of the side entrance to
the Church of Saint Genevieve, which in the middle ages was the Church
of Saint Stephen but changed its name. No magic car appeared to pick us
up, but then we were there before midnight and hence too early for it.
The only one of the 1920s characters in the film whom I ever met
personally was Salvador Dali, and I would say that Adrien Brody
captures him and his outrageous mannerisms to perfection, even though I
only knew Dali four decades later. Corey Stoll does a superb job as
Hemingway, Tom Hiddleston and Alison Pill are excellent as Scott and
Zelda, Yves-Antoine Spoto looks exactly like Matisse, Marcial Di Fonzo
Bo looks and behaves eerily like Picasso, and so on. But the whole film
is suffused with the warm glow and delicious charm of the incomparable
Marion Cotillard, who plays the fictitious character &#x27;Adriana&#x27;, with
whom Owen Wilson falls in love. And one can understand why he cannot
resist her! The other woman in his life is the delightful Parisian
beauty L&#xE9;a Seydoux, another in the seemingly endless stream of
cinematic talent of the Seydoux family, which is responsible for such a
large proportion of what happens in the French film business. Is there
simply no end to them? They just keep coming, generation after
generation, like the Gallimards in publishing. This film has profound
messages for us, presented as usual in comedic form, but behind all the
jokes we sense a very serious Woody this time who is really trying to
communicate essential things to us. Owen and Cotillard magically go
back to the turn of the century, the Belle &#xC9;poque, and meet Degas,
Gauguin, and an uncannily convincing Toulouse-Lautrec (Vincent Menjou
Cortes). Cotillard decides to stay behind, as to her this is her
&#x27;golden age&#x27;, just as the 1920s is Owen&#x27;s. They discover that Degas and
Gauguin believe the Renaissance was a golden age, and they wish to go
back to it. The message is that everyone imagines a different golden
age depending on when they live, but we must learn to make the best of
our own. The film is funny, heart-warming, deeply satisfying, and a
wonderful evocation of the dreams we all have of seeking for
fulfillment, whether in the past, or in the present. This may be the
finest film that Woody Allen has ever made.
