2011_June 21 
An enjoyable, if slight, Woody Allen comedy. I probably would have
enjoyed this more on video than in the theater, however. I don&#x27;t think
there has ever been a film that invited more forced laughter than this
one. It&#x27;s funny, but rarely laugh-out-loud funny. But you wouldn&#x27;t know
that from the audience, who guffawed at the mere appearance of Henri
Matisse. The one person in the audience besides me to have heard of The
Exterminating Angel made sure to let me know by her laughter during the
film&#x27;s very unfunny Marvin Berry moment. Of course, everyone cackled
loudly when Salvador Dali popped up. So everyone by now knows the
story: Owen Wilson, playing the Woody Allen surrogate, plays a
Hollywood writer entranced with the city of Paris during his trip
there. He&#x27;s annoyed by his stuffy future-wife (Rachel McAdams) and her
even stuffier parents (Kurt Fuller and Mimi Kennedy). During a midnight
walk through the city, he gets picked up by an old automobile and
transported to Paris of the 1920s, where he meets F. Scott and Zelda
Fitzgerald (Tom Hiddleston and Alison Pill), Ernest Hemmingway (Corey
Stoll), Gertrud Stein (Kathy Bates), Pablo Picasso (Marcial di Fonzo
Bo) and other famous figures from the era. He also meets Picasso&#x27;s
current girlfriend, played by Marion Cotillard, and falls for her. Not
surprising how quickly he would leave McAdams, who plays such an
awfully detestable shrew it&#x27;s hard to believe anyone even remotely like
Wilson&#x27;s character would put up with her for over two minutes, let
alone propose to her at some point. McAdams and her parents are so
awful that any sequence that takes place in the present are borderline
painful. Fortunately, the sequences where Wilson visits the past, as
annoyingly congratulatory as they are, are quite delightful. Wilson
ain&#x27;t half bad, and Cotillard, as always, is enchanting. Most of the
historical figures are kind of fun to hang out with. Who wouldn&#x27;t want
to hear Ernest Hemmingway talk about hunting lions all night long? Of
course, it helps that Paris really is beautiful, and Allen films it
with a fine eye.
