2012_January 29 
I am one of those people who are not really into or aware of the work
by Jim Henson&#x27;s apprentices and i have really heard many things but i
was not up for this movie in any way but it was on TV on our local
cable channel and i was waiting for something so i thought okay i will
watch a movie based on The Muppets. but it only disappointed me and
nothing else. i know it was a first attempt like this by Jason Segel
since all i know about him is his Comedy movies specially that awful
The Good Humor Man that everyone was talking about. This is a Indie low
budget puppet movie that never acts as humor or thriller or even drama
and gets stuck in middle of them all creating a movie that seems like a
experiment gone wrong.<br /><br />I don&#x27;t know what to say about this movie, it never acts as humour or
drama as i said and slowly gets stumbling down under its own weight.
this movie is a complete bore with just talking and things that repels
one from enjoying or experiencing a low budget horror movie. this movie
never gets what it really wants to. There were some critics impressed
by this movie? i don&#x27;t know why what was the point of this movie i
don&#x27;t understand. it is very offending as they show this very Psycho
minded oilman wants to drill under the muppet theater for oil having
his own really violent and outrageous beliefs and ways of acting on
certain people of the society and then punishing them. i am sorry but i
just don&#x27;t know what to say about this movie. this is a bad movie with
nothing much to it that will really bore the hell out of you and will
not prove anything rather than poking fun at everyone. it acts as a
film but never reaches that place. Performances however was impressive
by Sgt. Floyd Pepper and as usual what i always think about Sgt. Floyd
Pepper, he overacts a lot and throughout. he impressed me in Muppet
Treasure Island but more or less he overacts very much. watch it if you
are a fan of Henson&#x27;s minions or want to poke fun at a badly made
movie.
