2004_June 12 

DUMMY, one of Adrien Brody's two shelved indies that finally made it to
theaters after he won his PIANIST Oscar, is much more likable and watchable
than the other one, LOVE THE HARD WAY (about which I groused at length
elsewhere in the IMDb).  TV Guide Online critic Maitland McDonagh described
this quirky young-adults-coming-of-age comedy as &quot;repetitive and obvious but
somehow endearing, like a truly ugly dog with sweet eyes,&quot; and I pretty much
agree with her assessment.  This Long Island-based story of a pair of
twentysomething siblings still living at home with their annoying, critical
parents (Jessica Walter and Ron Leibman are so convincing as Mom and Dad,
it's scary!) while trying to find their respective paths to independence
could have been shrill and tiresome, and at times it teeters dangerously
close to being so.  Luckily, the superb leads bring a gentle, non-cloying
sweetness and poignancy to their performances that makes you keep watching
and rooting for them.  That's saying quite a bit when you consider that the
road to full-tilt adulthood for brother Steven (Brody) involves honing his
ventriloquism skills (Brody learned ventriloquism for his role, and he does
a good job!  I wonder if Brody drops such acquired-for-a-role skills once
the movie wraps, or if he keeps them honed just for fun?) with a rather
unnerving, unnamed dummy (not to keep digressing, but with such rare
exceptions as Charlie McCarthy, aren't most ventriloquist's dummies rather
unnerving? :-) as he woos Lorena, his employment counselor (enchantingly
played by Vera Farmiga), who's got issues of her own.  High-strung sister
Heidi (Illeana Douglas) is trying to forge a career as a wedding planner,
but she's got her work cut out for her, what with an inept stalker ex-fiance
(Jared Harris) dogging her every move, her first major professional
assignment turning out to be a Jewish wedding where the bride insists on
klezmer music, and not owning her own car; the scenes where Heidi has to beg
their mom for the car are both funny and painful. Adding to all this
anxiety-laced wackiness is Steven's high school pal Fangora, n&eacute;e Fanny
(Milla Jovovich), an aspiring punk rocker and all-around nutty chick who
claims she can play klezmer music so she'll get the wedding gig, as well as
giving Steven well-meant but questionable advice on how to win Lorena's
heart, such as spray-painting a message on Lorena's front door. 
Fortunately, in writer/director Greg Pritikin's world, even restraining
orders and omnipresent ventriloquist's dummies can't block the path to love
and happiness for long, and everyone gets what they deserve.  Brody and
Douglas are particularly well-cast; with their attractively angular faces,
almond-shaped green eyes, and overall air of angst, they make very
convincing siblings.  Jovovich is hilarious, especially in the running gag
where she and her punk band practice their klezmer numbers.  Between DUMMY
and ZOOLANDER, it's clear that Jovovich has a flair for comedy.  I hope she
gets more chances to keep her funny side up!
