2012_March 6 
Firstly, let us appreciate the guts of its producer, Thomas Langman,
who made this experiment possible in the world that is filled with 3-D
and CG films. Director Michel Hazanavicius took the audacious of task
of making this silent wonder an eminently watchable film. The
impeccable lead artistes&#x97;Jean Dujardin and Berenice Bejo&#x97; add glory on
their part with their charming act. And the screen stealer is Uggie - a
small dog, an accomplice of the protagonist. The story is set in the
tumultuous years 1927-32 (a very crucial period for both cinema and
politics). We are introduced to the world of George Valentin, a
larger-than-life hero of Silent movie era. When talkies were talk of
the town, Valentin reluctantly avoids (like Charlie Chaplin) the new
form of Cinema. But for the unknown girl, Peppy Miller, who bumps into
Geroge Valentin&#x27;s show, gets the chance of acting in films. She even
gets a valuable advice from the Superstar George Valentin how to become
a star. From that moment a bond develops between these two. Later she
uses the opportunity of acting in talkies and emerges as a well-known
star. Like &#x22;A Star is Born,&#x22; as the unwilling George is seeing depth of
his career primarily due to his reluctance in acting talkies. At the
same time, unknown Peppy Miller&#x27;s fortune touches the sky. When the
Geroge Valentin&#x27;s agonized wife banishes him, he moves away from the
house with his soulful companion - Uggie the dog. The shrewd dog also
saves his master from the fire accident. When George is about to commit
suicide, Peppy Miller enters and changes the course of his life with a
novel proposal that Geroge can&#x27;t refuse. Constructed upon this simple
premise, the movie captures our attention. The primary reason is
nothing but the lead artistes who alights the screen with their
magnetic performances. The music is too good, so do the art work. Each
and every scene is crafted with perfection, making this 100-minute
movie a one-of-a-kind gem. The lead star Jean Dujardin ( a reputable
French comedian) gets the continuous applause throughout the film for
his flawless portrayal of the silent movie star. Likewise, the female
lead artiste also gives an equally riveting performance. The facts
behind the making of this movie are equally amazing. The movie is shot
in colour and while post-production changed into black and white.
Barring a few dialogues at the end, the entire movie has no spoken
word. Like the silent films, captions provided wherever necessary. The
scenes are constructed in such a manner there is no need for dialogues.
For the final 2-minutes song sequence alone, the lead artistes
rehearsed for almost 6-months! Totally there are three dogs enacted the
role of Uggie. Like the good old silent films, the filmmaker used
plenty of close-ups and humour-inducing scenes to makes the show live
and brisk. Eventually the movie got rousing reception wherever it
screened and got countless number of awards, including the prestigious
Best Picture Academy Award at Oscars. Evoking the memories of bygone
era, the filmmaker created a compelling film that is worthy to watch
and cherish. Deeply moving, gently heartwarming, the Artist is a
standout drama that will transport you to the glorified days of silent
era - an immensely gratifying experience. If you have a time, watch
this film. Otherwise, make some time to watch this marvel. R.
Srinivasan
