2012_January 8 
The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo is based upon the novel of the same
name by Stieg Larsson and was previously made into a film in 2009
starring Michael Nyqvist and Noomi Rapace and directed by Niels Arden
Oplev. This American version of the book (the other version I mentioned
was Swedish), stars Daniel Craig and Rooney Mara and is directed by
David Fincher. First off I would like to say that I have never read the
book of The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, or seen the Swedish adaptation
either. I know that a couple of years ago the book became immensely
popular among avid readers and that two sequels were released with the
books and shortly after with the three films done in Sweden and now we
have the American version of the first book and film. So having never
read the book or having seen the Swedish version, I am going into this
film as a newcomer unfamiliar with all of it. When the film first
started playing a cover version of Led Zeppelin&#x27;s The Immigrant Song,
to some poorly conceived opening credits, I really had no idea whether
I would like this film, or not, and to be honest it did take me a
little while to get into it and used to the style of the whole thing,
but once I adjusted and got used to the characters and what was going
on in the film, I found myself totally enthralled with it and
absolutely loving it. The film will definitely not be for everyone
because it is very dark and macabre and features some very graphic
violence, which I am sure will turn some viewers off. That being said I
found the film to be absolutely fascinating. I am not going to give
away any of the plot, because many of you going to see it I am sure
will have been familiar with either the book, or should I say books, or
films. If you have never seen any of them like myself, you will be so
captivated by what is going on, you will need no previous knowledge of
the films, or books in which to enjoy it. I thought the acting here by
the entire cast was absolutely fantastic. Each person did the best job
they possibly could and in a film like this, that means taking many
risks and even doing a lot of quite physical and demanding work and
they all did a terrific job. If the Oscars gave an award for best
overall cast in a movie, this should certainly be one of the nominees.
The actors each had their own personality to the characters and further
enhanced what made them intriguing, different, or even evil. I must
also give huge credit to the novelist Stieg Larsson and screenwriter
Steve Zaillian, because both have created characters here that are so
multi dimensional and they have so many different sides to them that we
are not only intrigued and fascinated by them, but we also want to
learn even more about them and because of the strong characterization
and development we feel for these characters whether it be pity,
empathy, or downright fear. I also liked how the characters evolved as
the film went on and they were not just the typecast characters that I
thought they would be. The film is a mystery and there is so much going
on in this film, but it all plays out so well that none of it is
boring, or feels useless and the way they crafted and put everything
together like this was absolutely brilliant. The musical score as well
as the lighting, cinematography and direction further gave depth and
feeling to the mood of the film and at types we would feel really
fearful, or in a state of suspense, or other times shocked, or even
intrigued by what we had just watched. This is a dark and macabre
little movie and like I said, it would definitely not be for everyone,
but I credit the filmmakers for going with it and not shying away from
anything and just producing a sometimes hard to watch, but overall
fascinating and mysterious masterpiece. Everything about this film is
so masterfully constructed, I think as lot of major film buffs would
find it hard not to love, or find a lot to like about this film. The
film&#x27;s director David Fincher directed 2010&#x27;s The Social Network, which
I considered to be the absolute best film of that year and here again
he impressed me very much and made what I consider to be the best film
of 2011. This guy is definitely going places and has the talent and
resume to prove it. This is a hands down masterpiece.
