2011_December 7 
It is often a mistake to read a review of a new film prior to seeing it
in theater. The review can raise expectations that cannot be satisfied,
and can spoil the fun of discovery even if the reviewer does his/her
best not to include spoilers. Luckily for me this film was an exception
to this rule. I read its review by A.O. Scott in NYT before deciding to
see it, but the review did not prepare me for the impact that the film
had on me. The probable reason for this lucky discrepancy is that this
is such an original film that it is hard to summarize it in a review.
So, I won&#x27;t attempt to do so. Yes, it is about a planet called
Melancholia and yes, it is about a sense of melancholy Kirstin Dunst&#x27;s
character experiences, but the way the two are connected is hard to
explain. It is, however, worth waiting for all the two hour length of
the film for this relationship to unfold. In fact, it is much easier to
say what the film is not, than what it is about. Yes, the film is about
a strange planet, but it is not science-fiction. Yes, the film is about
mental illness, but it is not a psychodrama. Yes, it has recognizable
veteran actors such as John Hurt and Charlotte Rampling, but the most
compelling performance is by the relatively young Ms. Dunst. She
constructs a character that is elusive, troubled and entirely
compelling. Wow, what a performance! Those of us who have grown to
think of her as the harmless white bread love interest of Spiderman,
better think again. It would have been so easy for her to turn her
character into an Ophelia, but she didn&#x27;t. Here is a young actress with
considerable talent who can give a subtle performance. I also laud Lars
von Trier for his bold treatment of the subject of mental illness and
different ways of coping with it. Mr. von Trier is always provocative,
but sometimes rather irritating in his films. In Melancholia, he has
achieved something very difficult- a provocative and highly original
film that transcends genres and expectations, but satisfies
nonetheless. Bravo!
