2012_January 26 
Melancholia is a very philosophical film and much of what you see when
you watch it, you may not get all at once, so I am just briefly going
over the basic synopsis for the film, but please understand that there
is a fair bit to this film and one viewing of it to fully appreciate
and understand it simply is not enough. As the film starts out Justine,
has just married Michael and they arrive late at the wedding party
afterwards much to the disgust of several of the guests there. The
first part of the film focuses mainly on Justine. As the film starts
out we see her laugh and smile often and see that she is taking a lot
in on which is a very busy day. As the rest of the day unfolds however,
we see that Justine is drawing more into herself and away from others.
She often skips out on the different wedding parties and receptions
that are being held for her and prefers to remain alone. The once
radiant smile on her face as turned into a frown and the brightness and
excitement we once saw in her eyes at the beginning of the film is
going away as she now looks simply exhausted and very physically,
emotionally and mentally stressed. As the film goes on Justine goes
into a deeper and deeper depression and state of melancholy which
nobody can seem to bring her out of. Her friends and family are at this
time, of no use to her and a lot of the guests at the party from her
closest family and friends to her boss at work, all seem to want to get
something out of Justine, and they all seem to be their for their own
selfish interests and many of them end up being very self indulgent,
rude and further add to the stress of the day. All these events just
barely scratch the surface of Justine&#x27;s deep depression though. We see
that it is more than that that is bothering her and she may just have
to be on her own for awhile. The second part of the film focuses on
Justine&#x27;s sister Claire and her husband John. Justine is staying with
them, so she is still a major part of the story, but now Claire also
seems to slowly go into a panic and dread with the news of a new planet
approaching Earth and starts to get desperate and frantic concerning
hers and her family&#x27;s safety if said planet was to collide. That just
touches the film&#x27;s subject matter briefly because I think depending on
what you see in the film, that everyone will have their own
interpretations of what is going on and how to add things up in the
final act and the end of the film. I like how Melancholia did not give
us any easy answers, but instead gives us time and room to think and
ponder the events going on before our eyes. There is certainly a lot to
think about and digest when watching this film and I appreciated it for
giving us that. The story while it may sound simple has so much to it
on several different levels that this would be the perfect thesis paper
for a student of film, philosophy, or even psychology. The film and
it&#x27;s filmmaker are not interested in giving us a fast paced, big budget
film that is easy to understand and with a lot of action. It takes the
opposite route and gives us something more challenging, thought
provoking and overall worthwhile. Because of this the film may not be
for everyone, but for the art house crowd they will love it. The
performances are also all very good here, but I have to single out
Kirsten Dunst who plays Justine. It is a terrific performance and one
of the best of last year and the single best performance of Dunst&#x27;s
career. We can feel her depression and pain and just how she can evoke
so much feeling from us with her facial gestures, body posture and
movements to the sadness and despair in her eyes. She does a great job
and it was a great performance which was sadly excluded from the
Academy Award nominees list. The film is also a great looking film and
it is all just so intriguing and thought provoking that as I said you
definitely need to see the film more than once to get everything. That
being said, I hope I do get a chance to see it again soon, because I
know I will get even more out of it and like it even more after a
repeat viewing. While not for everyone this is a challenging film that
gets what depression is really like and takes us on a thought provoking
and unpleasant ride with it and I for one was really glad about that.
Highly recommended.
