2012_January 31 
One of the best films I have seen in ages. At first things seem
idyllic, a happy wedding, a beautiful bride, a splendid location...but
bit by bit we start to feel something is wrong. Problems of
communication arise as early as in the limo when the married couple
cannot get in touch with the chauffeur. During the wedding party
Justine often expresses the need to &#x22;talk&#x22; to different characters, but
she never gets to do it. Her boss is only interested in getting from
her a slogan for his advertising campaign; her husband has bought her a
piece of land without asking her and is already planning details of
their married life; when she finally gets her father to stay the night
at the castle so they can talk, all she finds is a note addressing her
with a wrong name, the same her father uses for every woman around him.
During the first part Justine is caught in the wedding program but she
does not comply with it. She disappears for long, having a hot bath or
taking a nap while the guests are waiting for her to do what she is
supposed to do.She is told by her mother to leave the party, and by her
sister to hide her depression and delusions from her husband. One by
one male guests leave the party: the sadistic and self-pleased boss,
the superficial father, even the husband who cannot understand his
wife&#x27;s deep uneasiness. In the second part, the approaching of the
planet proceeds in parallel with Justine&#x27;s fall into depression and
pessimism. Her sister, who tries to organize everybody&#x27;s life, is the
only one who seems to understand Justine and maybe share some of her
obsessions. Claire&#x27;s husband is a rational character, but in the end
his faith in science will not help him. Justine, being convinced that
life on Earth is just accidental, is not afraid of the approaching
planet. The real catastrophe is not in the sky but on Earth. Humankind
is wicked. Little by little, with the flight of all men surrounding
her, Justine finds she is stronger than her sister. Now it is just the
two of them and Claire&#x27;s little son. Even if Justine knows too well
that there is no place to escape (there never has been one), she builds
a symbolic shelter where the three of them can wait together for the
end. The film is visually enchanting; the imagery of the first few
minutes is simply astonishing. As it does not ask to be considered a
sci-fi film, it is pointless to look for factual or scientific
mistakes, as it would be for another masterpiece like &#x22;Solaris&#x22;.
