2011_October 11 
&#x22;dance of death, also called danse macabre, medieval allegorical
concept of the all-conquering and equalizing power of death, expressed
in the drama, poetry, music, and visual arts of western Europe mainly
in the late Middle Ages. Strictly speaking, it is a literary or
pictorial representation of a procession or dance of both living and
dead figures, the living arranged in order of their rank&#x22;. Or as Von
Sydow would say in Bergman&#x27;s 7th Seal: &#x22; I met death today. We are
playing chess.&#x22; The Danish director Lars von Trier&#x27;s latest jewel
offers the most amazing images in cinema in recent time. A
cinematographic tour de force but also a genuine question: how does one
face mortality? Some people know they will die, some don&#x27;t want to face
it, some rather worry about their next milkshake, some pray and go to
church before they kick the bucket, some fantasize about it day and
night......some directors talk about it ( Woody Allen - a constant when
younger) and seem to echo the existentialists ( life thanks to death is
reduced to absurdity). The title: Melancholia is a trick from the
director who knows we will fall in the trap with preconceived notions.
What does it mean to be melancholic? depressed, crazy , ill, fearful or
feeling something others don&#x27;t ever feel? Kirsten Durnst is exceptional
as one sister while Charlotte Gainsbourg , the other, for once holds
her ground. Both are different yet intrinsically bounded to each other.
The blond and the brunette will have to answer to those questions? Lars
von Trier has kept his sense of humor and morbid longing to toy with us
as in the great tradition of European directors. He throws at the two
women ( and us ) a very large metaphor and let the women perform that
dance of death and ranking. Any other clue would be a spoiler. Not like
any other movie. Very entertaining and difficult to put it in a genre
because Von Trier is each time redefining his own. In brief :
stunning,deeply moving, haunting ( and so a propos next
year!!!!!!!!!!!)and a great, great conversation piece to have with
friends and a few ( or many) martinis. A+
