2012_January 22 
Mary Jane Watson has a come long way since her upside down kiss with
the masqueraded Peter Parker. Named best Actress at Cannes; MELANCHOLIA
is undoubtedly one of her (Kirsten Dunst) best works as of date. Its
Justine&#x27;s (Kirsten Dunst) wedding day! Clearly depressed beyond
fathomable explanation she does seem to come through as inconsiderate
towards her nurturing sister Claire (Charlotte Gainsbourg) and her
Husband John (Kiefer Sutherland) who have thrown her a lavish wedding
party on their estate. There is something that Justine is aware of;
there is something that is holding her back from her own wedding party,
what could this be? What makes Justin not even notice her husband
Michael (Alexander Skarsgard) on their wedding night? What makes he do
what she does on the golf course? Does Justin know something that no
one else does? It is indeed obvious that the world will end in
MELANCHOLIA. The movie unfolds with a beautiful enchanting overture,
set to Wagners &#x22;Tristan and Isolde&#x22;. A mime that is tangled but
personally one that I felt was indeed a bit too long. Justine standing
while living creatures fall out of the sky, Claire is shown fighting
her way through the golf course carrying her son and running for their
lives. Then suddenly director Lars Von Trier shows the earth colliding
with MELANCHOLIA and the earth as we know it is destroyed! Lars Von
Trier; whose work I have never experienced seeps through as a
mastermind. Although MELANCHOLIA is extremely difficult to watch and
now that I am doing this piece it seems extremely hard to forget, this
unorthodox script is certainly a worthy mention at the Oscars of 2012.
However considering the Golden Globe Awards that took place and its
nominees and winners the chances of even a mention may be unlikely.
This assumption is based of the Golden Globe tagline &#x22;Road to the
Oscars&#x22;! Is MELANCHOLIA a movie of damnation of mankind? Is it a
reflection of all our wrongs and how it will be dealt with by a grater
force than man? Or is it just coincidence that we happen to be in the
way of the blue planets (MELANCHOLIA) trajectory path? Either way the
prologue clearly does for certain emphasize that there will be no hope
for the planet earth or us! What an appropriate theme to bring forth at
a time where there is wide panic and theories of the end of the Mayan
Calendar! Smart is what Lars Von Trier is indeed&#x85; Is this the way the
world is supposed to end? Both with a bang and in silence? Title:
MELANCHOLIA Directed by: Lars Von Trier Starring: Kirsten Dunst,
Charlotte Gansbourg, Alexander Skarsgard, Stellan Skarsgard and Kiefer
Sutherland Rated: Rated R for some graphic nudity, sexual content and
language Rating: 07/10 136 Minutes
