2010_July 22 
That was over a good half of 2010. This article, as the result of these
6 months of new movies. Which movies you remember most? For example, I
start. From the beginning, the movies were not the best quality. The
films were generally not first class, but the cartoons out for every
taste and color. AND PIXAR, DreamWorks, and pleased us with his new
masterpiece. But they were only cartoons, but now has the main
contender for the title of &#x22;Best Picture 2010&#x22; - a film by Christopher
Nolan&#x27;s &#x22;Home&#x22; Christopher Nolan By itself, Nolan always made films
with meaning. His first work (Doodlebug and Following) became if not a
masterpiece of its genre, then one of the best. Movie critics never
deprive Christopher attention. All his films were very much
appreciated. Spectators put pictures of Nolan on the most prestigious
places in various ratings. For example, his paintings Remember,
Prestige, Batman: The Beginning and The Dark Knight includes the
Top-250 best films on the version of the website IMDb. And this is a
very big achievement.<br /><br />Hitchcock vs. Nolan If someone compare Nolan, then only with this
absolutely brilliant Englishman. No, I&#x27;m not saying that Hitchcock and
Nolan are very similar, yet between them there is a lot in common.
Hitchcock began his career with thrillers and melodramas. He shot a lot
and qualitatively. Two of his greatest masterpiece - Rear Window and
Psycho. Psycho - a masterpiece of world cinema-like. The atmosphere,
the script, the game actors - all in the movie perfectly. But the
ending - this is something unimaginable. Who would have thought that
all will end well ... In the film, Christopher is also an important
component is the end. Decoupling in the Prestige, harassment and even
in his debut film Doodlebug is not so much a genius, how surprising.
The end of these films fascinating, forcing people to sit at the
screen, thinking about the whole movie is very, very long time.<br /><br />- Hitchcock v. Nolan? - No.<br /><br />Hitchcock + Nolan! Alfred and Christopher - two people have changed the
cinema. They gave all the world Cinematography brilliant work. And
their works, as well as they themselves will never be forgotten. So I
can say that the film start on the right could be one of the most
brilliant paintings of humanity, along with Alfred Hitchcock&#x27;s Psycho!
Plot &#x22;To make a great movie, you need three things - the script, the
script and the script again.&#x22; - Said Alfred Hitchcock. And, indeed, all
his films are very special and unusual story with an unusual and
memorable ending. Home - the most brilliant representative films of the
present generation, fully matching this description. Invent a story. Of
course, it will be clear not all, but that trip, which did hero of the
film no one will ever forget. From one dream to another, from the
consciousness of the unconscious, from world to world ... All the 140
minutes I did not stop to wonder how Nolan was able to create your own
world of dreams. Comparing the world of Cobb to the world of the
Matrix, we can say that it has two truly unique space. And there, where
people are not limited in scope, and do whatever they want. Still, The
Matrix was invented before, so, we can not ignore that the Wachowski
have created a world of rapidly Nolan. But Christopher in any extent to
not drop the bar movie of this level, on the contrary, he raised the
bar to a new, perhaps not attainable level of excellence.<br /><br />Acting For me this film was 4 Actor: Leonardo DiCaprio, Joseph
Gordon-Levitt, Ellen Page and Marion Cotillard. In 2010, already
published two very unusual film with DiCaprio - Island of the Damned
and The Beginning. And the first and the second case, he played a not
very ordinary person. At first he was sick, who believed that he was a
policeman. He played it there beyond praise. And in this film he acted
as a thief. Yes thief unusual, but he steals ideas. And his role in a
success. And he was sad, when necessary, and wondered when the
situation demanded. In general, if Leonardo DiCaprio does not receive
an Oscar, then this is a major disappointment in 2010 in terms of
acting. And Joseph, and Ellen, too, played a very, very good, but if
Gordon-Levitt has already played his best role, Paige still have
something to strive for. Marion looked very convincing, threatening her
and was very sorry. It is unlikely for a role she will receive awards,
but she already has much to be proud. And without these actors I could
not imagine a movie called Start! As a result, we have perhaps the most
significant film decades if not centuries. Nolan has embodied all their
desires and dreams in this film. He gave this movie a piece of my soul.
Home and Nolan are now inextricably linked, like two halves of one
whole cinematic masterpiece. Remember what the hype was with the Avatar
before the movie was released in theaters. Everyone said that this
movie will change the world on its head with its beauty and genius. But
that was then ... I became best Avatar movie or years, not decades, and
still less the century. Because Inception - it&#x27;s just a fairy tale, but
the beginning - the real, albeit fabulous, but incredibly intelligent,
truly beautiful, entertaining story. Inception - this is the most
unusual, memorable, unusual, spectacular, beautiful, intelligent,
dynamic and entertaining movie this year. That is beginning and change
the world. I&#x27;m sure.<br /><br />Final shots Brilliant Bravo Applause Curtain Thanks, Christopher!
