2010_July 24 
I am a big fan of Christopher Nolan. I think he is a genius, and
Inception supports that opinion to a higher extent. Inception is
everything you want from a film- it is a big event of a film, epic, but
also smart, complex with interesting dilemmas and a lot to talk about
after it is over. <br /><br />To start off with a film this big I have to start off with the plot at
it&#x27;s core. Inception is a dream of a film, literally, and the basic
plot point that a viewer needs to know is that it revolves around a man
who shuffles himself through peoples&#x27; dreams. The rest of the plot is
better not to be revealed, because since I did not know much of the
plot before seeing it, the reason why it works so well is because I did
not know what to expect. The screenplay is definitely broad and clever,
but also complex. This is a film that will need multiple viewings to
fully understand it&#x27;s grasp, but even though there is a lot to further
look at, it is still understandable to the point of not frustrating an
audience. The direction is brilliant, and I am one of those who was
outraged when Nolan was ignored for an Oscar nomination for Directing
for The Dark Knight. He needs one for this because I doubt that there
will be 5 better directorial achievements than him this year. The
performances are all great and professional, although I doubt that any
will get individual attention, simply because it is not a film based on
performances. Saying that, I think Dicaprio proves once again that he
is one of the best actors working today, while Joseph Gordon Levitt and
Ellen Page are great rising stars. The performance that impressed me
the most, however, was Marion Cotillard. She commands attention when
she is on screen, and the reason is part of her charm but also part of
the way she is able to give a fully realized performance that, while
short, does need a variety of different emotions. The visual effects
are amazing, the action mind-blowing and there are certain scenes that
will give many goosebumps... I know I did. <br /><br />On a final note, Inception will surely get a reaction out of you. It
left me thinking about it, even to this moment hours after I have seen
it. And that ending, the final scene, absolutely brilliant! I am sure
this will stand over time as Nolan&#x27;s masterpiece.
