2010_July 23 
What I mean is, don&#x27;t let the hype surrounding this film put you off.
If you like suspense thrillers with a bit of action that demand FULL
attention, you should love Inception. The film is not an intelligence
test, although I&#x27;m sure its growing number of fans consider themselves
to be superior to those who don&#x27;t like it. However, it WILL test your
patience at the beginning and will only pay off according to how much
you pay attention. The plot is very complicated, much of it taking
place in one of the character&#x27;s dreams. These dreams have been
orchestrated and designed by Cobb (Di Caprio) and his associates.
Without revealing the plot, the central premise is that you can sedate
a person, induce a specific dream using a technological thingamajig and
invade that dream in order to, for example, steal information from
them. This essentially is the set up for a complicated narrative
involving DiCaprio being half forced, half cajoled into the more
difficult task of planting an idea into the head of the heir to a
massive energy conglomerate, played by Cillian Murphy. I&#x27;ll leave the
rest for you to discover. The beginning is hugely action-packed, but in
a way that is deliberately confusing. Director Nolan attempts to have
the plot reveal itself to the audience as naturally as possible, using
fairly traditional story-telling devices for exposure. His intention
seems to be to have as little authorial presence as he can, to draw the
audience in fully. How much you enjoy the film depends on how
successful Nolan is at drawing you in. I gather many people have gone
in expecting the greatest film ever, and left disappointed. This is
inevitable. If, however, you go into it wanting to be drawn in, and
follow the path laid out for you, you will, I believe, be drawn in as
fully as I was. Time to gush: the plot is really original, and pretty
air-tight. There are no gaping holes that cannot be explained. After
the long opening sequence, the film is totally gripping. The packed
audience at the screening I saw was literally on the edge of its seat,
leaning forward spellbound by the end. The shouts and applause I
witnessed as the credits appeared were louder and more enthusiastic
than anything I have seen since Pulp Fiction. Wow. In addition the
effects are stunning, while at the same time necessary and unobtrusive.
The over-dramatic, very loud and much hated score really only mirrors
the drama on the screen and I have no problem with it. Of key
importance is the acting, as the film is so big, it could swamp the
characters. The ensemble cast, however, is uniformly brilliant,
although Ellen Page from Juno is a little overwhelmed and is the weak
link, she does a really good job to be fair. Special mention must go to
Ken Watanabe and Tom Hardy who are super cool and provide a little
lightness now and then. But this is Di Caprio&#x27;s film. This will surely
be seen as his best role, the culmination of a superb recent streak of
great performances in great films. He genuinely has the gravitas to
hold the film together and give it a moving, human element sorely
lacking in some of Nolan&#x27;s otherwise brilliant previous films. A great
movie. Watch it at the cinema, with an open mind.
