2010_July 19 
Ever since inception is announced, everyone is excited. Because it is
Nolan&#x27;s immediate follow up to biggest summer blockbuster Dark knight.
And it creates lot of buzz when its first trailer arrives. But for past
two months, inception is vigorously marketed and got a wave of rave
reviews keep people excited. But I am really worried because this much
hype leads to unrealistic expectations (which resulted in critic&#x27;s
backlash). Finally inception arrives. Does it lives up to hype? I am
more than glad to say yes. Inception is mind blooming original film
which deals with carefully constructed dreams in a blockbuster scale,
if you pay attention to the movie right from the start. If you are not
willing to keep your brain in active, you could easily lose the plot of
the movie and you have to settle for a dumb action movie. Having said
that, let&#x27;s focus on the film (I am not going into movie&#x27;s plot). The
film lives up to its tagline, the dream is real. Nolan somehow managed
to give the real version of dreams. The plot is not confusing it seems,
only the narration makes it complex (like other Nolan films). But if
you watch carefully it&#x27;s not that hard to follow (though final act
blows your mind). Yes, it is a heist film and not a typical blockbuster
movie. But it had some great action sequences which does make perfect
sense to the movie. Paris folding scene and gravity defying scene are
still dazzling my mind, begging me for repeated viewings. And the logic
behind the no &#x96; gravity scene is even more dazzling. Cast: It&#x27;s an all
star cast and everyone plays their character with purpose. The leading
man, Leonardo Dicaprio as Cobb. He was the core of the film. His
emotions are backbone of the narration. He pulls this complex character
with such ease. When it comes to emotional characters, it felts like he
was born to play these characters (watch Shutter Island). Cobb&#x27;s right
hand is Joseph Gordon-Levitt. His acting skills are improving with
every film. He makes zero gravity scene even more realistic. Ellen
page, she does her role to near perfection. Sure there is much more to
come from this young and talented actress. Tom hardy is the really the
scene stealer with his spontaneous one liners and gave this film much
needed charm. Though his accent is difficult to follow, Ken Watanabe is
good enough for his role. Cillian Murphy has little to do, but still
impress. Michael caine has very little screen space to make any impact.
Martin cotillard is awesome. She is pretty at times, terrifying
sometimes and also gets sympathy. One of the memorable performance in
recent years (considering very less screen space for her in the movie),
definitely an Oscar nod for best supporting actress. Hans zimmer&#x27;s
score is original and the best of his combination with Nolan till now.
His score adds much needed suspense and mystery to the film. Likewise
CGI works almost looks real. It seems like Wally Pfister exactly
understands what Nolan wanted. Though the movie is nearly 2 &#xBD; hours,
not even single frame is wasted. Kudos to the editing team. Overall: A
comparison with matrix is inevitable. But inception is purely Nolan&#x27;s
original idea constructed in his own way of narration. And of course
like other Nolan films, inception is opened to lot of interpretations.
This is a rare and most original blockbuster you have ever seen. Nolan
has outdone himself once again. Overall inception is a movie which will
blow your mind and also provides a visual treats to the viewers.
Inception is much more than what I reviewed. Go, see it. It confuses
and dazzles your mind in a good fashion. I am sure you will be urged
for multiple viewings. My points: 10/10.
