2010_July 20 
Clumsy, derivative, lazily scripted and massively over-long. I know
this isn&#x27;t what most people are saying about Inception but I&#x27;m afraid
this is the cruel truth about the film. There is simply nothing new
here, despite the &#x22;originality&#x22; everyone has credited the film with. If
you&#x27;ve seen The Matrix, Dreamscape, Total Recall, Blade Runner, or
Johnny Mnemonic (to name but a few) then there is going to be little
here to surprise you. The opening half hour of the film spends its time
frantically throwing complex and very clunky exposition at you in a
desperate attempt to explain the highly contrived rules of the
dreamworlds which provide the backdrop for much of the narrative. The
action is there, but as always, Nolan struggles to film it in an
exciting way, generally pushing the camera so close to his subject that
it is impossible to really make out what is going on. Even the dream
worlds in the film are remarkably bland and unimaginative - apparently
we all dream as if we are in a Hollywood high-concept film dominated by
CGI. The small scale nature of most dreams is nowhere to be found here
and nor is any of the fascinating strangeness and mystery associated
with dreaming; apparently the subconscious only really expresses itself
in our dreams by manifesting itself as a lot of rather tetchy people
who try to beat up anyone who invades the dreamer&#x27;s mind (sound at all
like the agents in The Matrix?). There are of course some impressive
visual effects along the way (for instance at one point Paris suddenly
folds back on itself so that streets run vertically and upside down
like something from an M C Escher picture) but these are calculated
simply for spectacle and Nolan really misses a trick in picking up the
potentially genuinely fascinating subject of dreams and the way in
which they link to the fantasy world of films. I&#x27;m sure this will be
popular with a lot of teenage boys who might be impressed with the
cod-philosophy of the film, but if you&#x27;ve seen any of the films listed
in the first few lines of this review or if you&#x27;ve read novels by
Philip K Dick or William Gibson, you aren&#x27;t going to find much to
engage with here. Massively over-rated, incredibly tedious and a waste
of an excellent cast who, in fairness, do the best they can with the
dreadful screenplay they were handed.
