2011_July 26 
Christopher Nolan has written and directed a masterpiece for the ages.
I have created my top ten best movies ever seen list and this is
standing proudly at number one. I have heard the arguments against this
film and they normally consist of viewers that were confused, couldn&#x27;t
get invested in the storyline and thought that the characters didn&#x27;t
get any backgrounds for us to get fully invested in them. Here is how I
see it, and by no means do I condemn those that dislike this film. I
tend to look at these characters as people involved in an Ocean&#x27;s
Eleven type plot. We don&#x27;t get to know the background of everybody, but
they all have specific talents that are needed for this job. Keep in
mind that this movie is not really a character piece even though we do
focus on Cobb for the entire film. In my personal professional opinion,
the plot isn&#x27;t confusing, just layered. For those that actually pay
attention to the plot of a film, this movie has a very strong pot that
is beautifully orchestrated throughout the 2h 30min run time. One only
need to look and listen for what is going on. If you are one to fall
asleep during a film longer than 2h then skip this until your wide
awake. This movie does take a few watches to understand the gravity of
everything going on and it only means your human if you finish the film
and ask what the f**k just happened. The action is so well shot and is
mind blowing to watch all the SFX. Now I wish to address the end all
and be all of the reviews. The end shot of the movie. Many people have
speculated as to how to decipher the end of this movie. I have heard
the argument that it was all a dream. His kids were the same age so he
must be in the dream world and not reality, and then there is the
argument that I personally believe in and have the easiest time
swallowing which is that he finished the job, got home and he is safe
and sound in the real world. My answer may be completely wrong or I
could be right on all cylinders. I honestly don&#x27;t care what the real
answer is because for all we know Chris Nolan made that ending
intentionally to make us believe all these things and never agree on
one answer. Whether or not there is a definite answer I am unclear
about. Nolan loves secrets. The reason I find my answer easier to
believe is because I have watched this movie four times (so far) and
that seems to be the most logical answer and the one I am satisfied in
believing. If somebody came up to me and said that I was wrong and they
knew the real answer I wouldn&#x27;t say prove it, I would say, OK, but this
is what I believe. This movie is my favorite because I think about this
movie every day of my life and recall that beautiful shot of the city
folding and the hotel fight scene. All memorable. Now to end my review
of this movie, I will address a question that everyone asks and nobody
seems to know the answer to. People constantly ask why there is a snowy
James Bond movie set in the climax scene. People say it is unnecessary
and doesn&#x27;t make sense. If you think back to when Ariadne was
recruited, she was the brains behind designing the levels of the dream.
So basically, using his creative mind and without telling us, Nolan
wrote that Ariadne&#x27;s character designed this level purely from her
mind. He takes a liberty with this because it can by anything. We never
hear or see Ariadne directly saying to the audience that the final
battle will be in this setting, but she&#x27;s just created it from her
mind. Nothing is wrong with this, it just adds a grander and more
dramatic scale. Maybe Nolan is a big Bond fan and wanted a set
reminiscent of this. Nothing wrong with that. Nolan has crafted the
most wholly original screenplay I have ever seen unfold onto the
screen. While his ideas were influenced by other films the story itself
and how it unfolds has never been done before. I doubt that I will
encounter a movie better than this anytime soon, but it is possible.
Until then I invite everyone to watch this film and bask in glory that
is Inception.
