2011_March 15 
I just had to watch this movie at least 4 times and I very rarely do
that for a movie. This is the movie I was looking to the most for 2010
and for the most part it lives up to the hype and beat my expectations.
This is a very exhilarating film that intrigued me from the very first
scene. This was basically one heck of a thrill ride that needs double
viewing for some audience to get a full grasp of what is exactly going
on. The plot is spectacular and very well written for the most part,
what I really liked was how challenging it is and ballsy. Since the
budget is high but by the script it just didn&#x27;t seem like a movie for
the mainstream audiences. The plot is basically about a team composed
of people with the skills of their own to infiltrate a person&#x27;s dream
and commit a heist by planting a idea. Even by means of corporate
espionage in order to do the task. One of the aspect I really liked was
how the team is very likable although they are basically thieves. The
team is composed of Dom Cobb aka The Extractor(Leonardo DiCaprio),
Arthur aka The Point Man(Joseph Gordon-Levitt), Ariadne aka The
Architect(Ellen Page), Eames aka The Forger(Tom Hardy), Yusuf aka The
Chemist(Dileep Rao). There is one other that just tags along Mr. Saito
aka The Tourist and the person the team&#x27;s target which is Robert
Michael Fischer aka The Mark, in another words he is the person the
team is prepared to commit inception on. I must say The Point Man is my
favorite character in this movie, he is sharp straight to the point and
he handles even the most difficult task in a dream like another day
just doing business. For this Christopher Nolan obviously borrowed some
bits and pieces of ideas from other movies with similar premise, even
anime. But it&#x27;s blended and crafted so very well there really isn&#x27;t
much to complain about in that department. This movie is a visual
brilliance almost everything about it is magnificent and highly
intriguing with it&#x27;s direction. But the thing is some may claim this is
a intricate puzzle, but I am going to have to disagree. Maybe the first
time seeing this it might seem like that, but this is m more of a movie
built with it&#x27;s complexity than a intricate puzzle. As a matter of fact
most audience would have to watch this twice in order to get a grasp of
everything that is going on. This can be the main problem for this
movie to some degree. Although the complexity in this will make the
audience think and thus be a challenging film, it is stacked with a bit
too much info. Yes, it necessary to leave out any plot holes. But it
spends a bit too much time explaining what is going on instead of
getting to the core of the plot. Now if the explaining part wasn&#x27;t the
least bit intriguing this would have been a HUGE flaw, but the thing is
it&#x27;s intriguing. So it becomes a minor flaw, at least to me that is.
Despite some minor flaws this is really a must watch movie, the visuals
are even very innovative in this. There is almost no boring parts in
this film and nothing seemed to really drag at all and the charming
characters gave more to the movie. Films like this is like the reason I
go out to watch movies in theaters, it really is brilliant in almost
every way.<br /><br />8.9/10
