2010_July 16 
I have just seen the most ridiculous &#x22;movie&#x22; ever made, and I use the
term movie quite loosely. Is there no expectation any more that movies
should have SOME plot, story, sequentiality, or plausibility, or are
they just total indulgences on the part of the director? Rather than
watching a compelling, evolving storyline that INVOLVES you and draws
you in, instead we witness the work of 18 year-old computer whiz kids
in front of their consoles, churning out meaningless, special effects
displays. One feels like a bystander on the sidelines, and the
experience of watching something like this is both boring and
irritating. &#x22;Inception&#x22; is the most confused, convoluted, ridiculous
assemblage of scenes ever put on the screen. At one point there were
simultaneously 1. shots of people underwater in a van that had just
gone off a bridge, 2. men shooting each other with machine-guns while
skiing, 3. men fighting each other in a hotel hallway while floating in
the air defying gravity, and 4. a scene with Leonardo DiCaprio at his
house talking to his wife. The camera kept alternating quickly between
each scene, but each one had nothing to do with the other. It was like
watching a movie preview, with random, unconnected scenes thrown out in
rapid succession, meant only to entice you to see the movie. Not only
did scenes bear no connection to one another, they also had no relation
to the scenes preceding them, and thus there was absolutely no
follow-able story line at all. There was nothing but c.g.i. effects
meant, I suppose, to &#x22;entertain&#x22; us. Do movie makers not realize that
special effects, in and of themselves, do not hold one&#x27;s interest if
there is no connection between them and some conceivable storyline? You
might as well be watching a cartoon. As with a cartoon, unless you&#x27;re
five years old or brain-impaired, you would become bored within five
minutes, because there&#x27;s no ongoing, developing story demanding your
attention.
