2010_July 14 
I just saw inception last night and absolutely loved it. Everything is
top-notch. Most of all, like in every Nolan movie, the editing is
crisp. There is no room for even a smile. Action is unique and highly
entertaining; although make a note there is no adrenaline rush during
any action scenes. This is where Nolan&#x27;s problem lies. We would have
experienced that missing adrenaline rush if he had taken some time to
develop the supporting characters, in order to make us feel for them.
The only characters I felt for is Cobb and Mal. Their love for each
other is shown beautifully, I personally have never seen a relationship
explored in this unique way. The only reason I can think why Nolan
didn&#x27;t spend time on other characters is because of the plot he had to
first explain and then execute. The plot is hard to explain let alone
execute, Nolan did a very good job given the short amount of time. At
the same time he had to make sure he did not loose the audience in
confusion. A job well done. Now, what I really like about this movie,
is the IDEA. Nolan has this great idea for a movie about dreams. On the
surface the movie is loaded with multiple tense narratives, but in the
background he&#x27;s also exploring how powerful the medium of dream can be.
Also at the same time he maintains the through-line of the movie. Not
letting anyone forget why we are watching this movie, why we should
care the protagonist reaches to a conclusion. Without the strong
through-line we would be lost like in dreams. I think the best actor in
the movie is Marian Cotillard. She plays her part with such a beauty I
just can&#x27;t describe. Leonardo also convinces us to fall for his
motivations and makes us want him to accomplish his mission. Joseph
Gordon-Lewitt also plays his part brilliantly, he is very straight
forward unlike the earlier mentioned actors. The rest of the actors are
just fine. Everyone Needs to see this movie if not because it is the
best Sci-Fi movie after Matrix, then for the fact that it is the best
movie of the year. If only Nolan can make a movie with this tight
narrative and make us fall for the characters at the same time; your
heart will stop beating. 10/10
