2010_July 16 
Christopher Nolan&#x27;s latest venture, Inception, is everything Hollywood
needs: human story, cool special effects, and an original idea. The
movie works on so many levels it cannot help but be entertaining. Cobb
(Leonardo DeCaprio) is a thief. However, he does not steal jewelry,
bonds, money or cars, but ideas. He does this by visiting the dream
scape of his victims. It has to be done in a clever way because some
people are aware of this type of crime. Not only are there natural
defenses in our dreams, but trained ones as well. His team is made an
offer, though. The offer comes from Sato (Ken Watanabe) who wishes to
do the opposite: he wants to plant an idea in a rival competitor,
played by Cillian Murphy. Now Cobb&#x27;s team must invade Murphy&#x27;s dream.
The movie works on so many levels. In the first place, we must learn
the rules. For example, someone entering a dream cannot draw attention
to themselves or alter the dream from their psyche or the dreamer will
catch on. The dreamer also has &#x22;memories&#x22; that act as defenses, much
like White Blood Cells that fight infections. Also, five minutes in
real time equals something like an hour in dream time. You can invade a
dream on two levels, or have a dream within a dream. The invaders must
keep some sort of physical device and hold it to memory within the
dream to make sure they are dreaming. Then there is the story of
relationships gone awry. In fact, we learn the dreams are ways of
dealing with past traumas. Cobb must learn to deal with his own
baggage. This relates to the death of his wife and the alienation from
his children. Unfortunately, they manifest themselves when he tries to
invade the dream of others. What I truly like about this film was the
metaphysical questions that deal with guilt, love, loss, and fear. What
makes all these things work so well is the even-handed direction and
screenplay of Nolan that keeps our interest piqued, but at the same
time does not reveal everything. It also has a very dark element
without being cynical or depressing. Instead, there is redemption.
Nolan keeps getting better without falling backwards like M. Night
Shymalan has done over the last half-decade. This is equally true in
his writing as well as his directing. He is truly the best director out
there at this time.
