2002_October 25 

I read an announcement for a public screening of this movie at my university
and everybody I asked about this movie was full of praise. I think I just
asked the wrong people about their opinion. This movie is one of the worst
I've ever seen. Not only does it show incredibly disgusting violence and
tons of blood, it tries to excuse it with a `black and white' fanatic
religious point of view that there are just `bad' and `good' guys and if the
`good' kill the `bad' it's right. No matter if they brutally murder a cat
for example during that process. The script is absolutely amateurish and
bad, so bad it will make you scream for your money and the time wasted on
this atrocity back. There isn't a single sentence in this movie without
excessive and dumb vulgarity and bad jokes. The directing and photography
rank between `simply amateurish' and `so bad it's funny'. The only famous
actor in this movie is Willem Dafoe, and I guess he's praying every night
that nobody sees this movie. He plays a smart FBI agent who is same-gender
attracted and (surprise, surprise) his character is thrown into nearly every
gay stereotype possible. Not a surprise at all, from a movie as
feeble-minded as this, can you expect something else? During that process
Dafoe gives some ridiculous examples that imitating Tim Curry in the Rocky
Horror Picture Show can a)go completely wrong and b)can go just more wrong
when it's out of place and just to feed the stereotypes of a silly script
obviously aimed on a certain audience, that, to my great sorrow, does seem
to exist. My verdict: `The Worst Movie Of All Time' just seems to be right
for this one. It's always frustrating to see that a movie like `Plan 9 From
Outer Space', whose only failure is the lack of budget and that otherwise
has a complex statement and very good directing  is labelled `The Worst Film
Of All Time' and movies like `Boondock Saints' are not. Who is the guy whom
we have to thank for this monstrosity? I just hope someone stops him from
throwing his disgusting and sick fantasies obviously heavily influenced by a
sick fetish for weapons and violence at us. Besides, there seem to be plans
for a sequel. To quote Plan 9: `May God help us in the
future!'
