2005_August 23 
The Boondock Saints was a film a couple of times while watching it (not
early on, but midway through and around the last twenty minutes) I
wanted to turn off, but I didn't as I wanted to see what might happen
next. Perhaps that's from the crime/action film fan I am, but the
set-up to the film is a hook: the MacManus brothers (Sean Patrick
Flannery and Norman Reedus) are regular Catholic church-goers who also
frequent the local pub. One day, after contemplating that God does not
rid the world of the ones who are really the wrongdoers, they go out
and do it themselves- quasi-vigilantes with a kind of spiritual
morality at their sides. The mobsters that they're wiping out are
connected, and it leads to an investigation being started by the
eccentric/gay Detective played by Willem Dafoe, and also an all-out-war
escalating with the hiring of a crazy killer (Billy Connolly) on their
trails. So, for the first fifteen to twenty minutes of watching the
film, the hook had me in, and while I didn't think of it as
particularly dynamite film-making, it did attempt at a realistic
beginning of the lead's lives and conflicts. <br /><br />This, unfortunately, did not hold. The problem with how The Boondock
Saints unfolds is that at many points in the film it doesn't know how
to balance the elements of comedy and tragedy, and gets morality mixed
up in it all. One reviewer said its like Natural Born Killers with a
moral. But un-like NBK, the film doesn't have any particular 'point' to
make, up until the end which becomes very muddled. For example, the
Willem Dafoe character- he plays this role wildly, sometimes smoothly,
and in some scenes he basically held the framework together. But the
script doesn't give him much else to go; is he funny, operatic, for
real? Writer/Director Troy Duffy has him chasing his tail every which
way. Unlike in a smarter, more experimental film like NBK, Duffy in an
ironic sense plays it safe with the story. The script has also been
compared to Tarantino, and that is a relevant comparison to make. The
film-making style itself is not necessarily a QT knockoff (too many
big-style camera moves, and a poor soundtrack sorry to say, there isn't
much patience or true daring), but the script does have that sort of
realm of it. <br /><br />The F-word is tossed around like candy; the bad-asses in the film are
made out to look like 'real' bad-asses (see Connelly, one of his oddest
roles); and there is plenty of action to go around (although I'd say,
at least in comparison to Pulp Fiction, that had less action, with
better results than this film). I wouldn't mean to make comparisons,
but it would give people a better idea the near naivety of the
filmmaker towards the audience. What's the moral in the end anyway,
that justified killing is OK if its connected with Catholic revenge and
justice? Whatever points are being made in the film are made early on
and then lost in most of the second and third acts. It's not that there
isn't some talent in Duffy's writing or direction, or that the actors
don't do what they can. Yet there is such a kind of formula to it as
well, even in the more unexpected scenes. The Boondock Saints does have
its cult audience out there to be sure (some consider it one of the
best films ever made), but it is too 'cool' and 'smart' for its own
good. <br /><br />It's like the horse that you're friend wanted you to bet in on, and
then after its impressive first stretch it folds, and then trips over.
I almost wished at times I could like it more while watching it, but I
also know that there are better, and less exploitive, original genre
films out there.
