2010_July 8 
This movie had its humorous moments, but with that came way to many
sappy scenes and suffice to say I did not love this movie. Nothing I
hated, but nothing I try to watch when I see it on the television
either. The story revolves around the character of the title Forrest
Gump of course. It basically goes through different parts of his life
and shows how a very simple man led a rather astonishing life. A rather
unrealistic life filled with a bit to much melodrama for my tastes. I
can see why others like this movie, but once again just not really my
type of movie. Tom Hanks is good in the lead role and I also thought
Gary Sinese was good in his role too, however I did not care for the
character of Jenny as she just ticked me off to no end. The film is
also better in some places than other as the film really has a rather
disjointed feel to it. It goes from here to there and is not hard to
follow at times though it just feels like a patchwork movie. The
Vietnam portion of the film to me was the highlight, here the comedy
was good and even the drama worked too. Other sections of the film at
times just felt to underdeveloped. Here is Forrest entering college,
now he is done two minutes later, here is Forrest playing ping pong,
now he is back Washington D.C. at a black panther party. Like I said it
has its moments, but for me it was a bit to all over the place like
they tried to get everything that was in the book up on screen. And as
short as some of this segments were you then have a rather lengthy
scene of just him running, though that one was rather good even though
it was simple. I will never see how this film beat out &#x22;True Lies&#x22; for
the best special effects Oscar, I was not overly impressed with the
scenes Forrest was inserted in as it simply looked like they animated
the mouths of those he was supposed to be meeting and they sort of
stuck him in there using file footage of John F. Kennedy for example. I
just thought it was just a bit better technique used than that of a
Steve Martin film &#x22;Dead Men Don&#x27;t Wear Plaid&#x22;. Overall it was okay, but
just not going to be in my personal top 100 movies of all time.
