2000_November 3 

OK, unlike some of you, I am not going to slam this film out of anger just
because it beat out &quot;Pulp Fiction&quot; and &quot;The Shawshank Redemption&quot; on the
1994 awards circuit.  Yes, this film was made with broad eyes and simple
minds.  Yes, it partially served as a candy-coated time capsule for those
narcissistic baby boomers.  Yes, as usual, the film is loaded with Zemekis'
right-wing ideals clumsily disguised as cuddly Hallmark Card sentiments. 
One thing that may have bothered people is how American this film is.  It is
SO American, so much so that I ask you to think of a recent film that is so
American that isn't completely set in some military environment. 
Nonetheless, I loved the epic scope and reach of this film.  It restored my
belief that people still want to make &quot;magical&quot; films.  The breadth of this
film is as close to an old MGM musical as we're going to get these
days.<br /><br />I don't think Tom Hanks was playing over-the-top (that endeavor belongs to
Al Pacino), he hit the note just right with his mix of innocence and
morality.  Gary Sinise got damn lucky with this film.  Like Richard Gere,
Sinise suffers from the John Travolta syndrome; they're all good actors who
have a habit of picking bad movies.  But Sinise must have known how juicy
this role was, his poker-face reaction to the New Year's party is just
incredible.  Robin Wright-Penn also gave a great performance, and you have
to give credit where credit is due; The role of Jenny is one of a few female
characters in film whose purpose of existence is not defined solely through
the male lead (although her story is chronicled on a separate timeline than
Forrest's).  The Bubba character was given a good dose of sympathy to
prevent him from becoming a Southern country-boy caricature.  And his
friendship with Forrest demonstrates an indifferent towards American racism
that only a child is capable of (also remember, these two guys are from the
South).  I was most impressed with the song medley they concocted for the
running sequence.  The scene takes place in the late 70's, and they choose
all these classic 70's songs that have themes of movement or travel (&quot;Go
Your Own Way,&quot; &quot;Running On Empty,&quot; &quot;On The Road Again,&quot; &quot;Against The Wind&quot;).
 It is all edited together quite wonderfully.  I'm not a huge Zemekis fan (I
think his Spielbergian tendencies are a little obvious at times), but this
is a beautiful film.

