1999_March 10 

A number of users have mentioned that The Shawshank Redemption (TSR) should
have won the best picture Oscar over Forrest Gump (FG). This type of
criticism is unjustified when you realise the various reason why FG actually
won the Oscars!!!
1) The title Forrest Gump is a bit misleading as the movie is not really
about FG as it first seems for the average viewer, rather it is about us the
audience who are supposed to be normal but we act in real life even worse
than FG.
2) FG is laughing at us as we laugh at him. We see him as abnormal, but when
Forrest tries to understand us he finds out that normal people cause so much
pain in the world towards other people. This is clearly shown with the short
clips of political and social history throughout the movie which the viewing
audience in the cinema failed to recognise. This helps to prove FG case
against normal people.
3) The movie can be interpreted in so many different ways that every time a
viewer watches it they get a different version of what Forrest sees and
understands and what it means for human nature as a whole. Only Forrest
seems normal in the movie, while others are killing pop stars and important
people in society. Forrest can't understand why normal people do this, as
for me personally I agree with Forrest on this issue.
4) While Forrest is telling his story of events in his life, many of the
viewing audience thought it was literally happening, but because some of the
events described are surreal in its feel many people thought the movie was
silly. Yet it was the viewers who were silly as they see things through
Forrest's eyes not their own. Equally the viewer misses many of the
important aspects of the movies' message because they fail to go into
Forrest's world and explore.<br /><br />Misinterpretation that the viewer makes:
1) The running scene though at first seeming stupid is in fact one of the most
thought provoking scenes ever in the history of movie making, but the
average viewer does not realise this, because he/she cannot think broadly.
This scene shows that normal people are stupid to follow people in the media
as icons thinking they are clever people because they seem to be doing
something special. What Forrest shows is that famous people are just as
brainy as every else. But we normal people worship politicians in vain and
others stars to sort out our world problems.
2) When Forrest is speaking at a rally against Vietnam, again people in real
life follow anybody who has a big mouth without really understanding what
they are saying - so profound as well as funny.
3) Jenny only realises that Forrest is the right person for her when it is
too late, you should not judge on appearances, rather the
character.<br /><br />The Movie also shows how normal people bully others, rape and child abuse
children, start wars, use people and discriminate others. Forrest does not
do any of these things, yet we as the viewer call him abnormal. For me, this
is the most innovative movie I have ever seen as it has duped the world to
think it is about Forrest rather than themselves.
