2003_August 3 
FORREST GUMP is one of the most unforgettable films I have ever seen.
Director Robert Zemeckis marked his place in Hollywood with the hugely
popular Back to the Future trilogy. Tom Hanks climbed the ladder of
success starring in comedy movies like Splash and Turner and Hooch in
the 1980's, but hadn't had critical success until 1993 when he starred
in Philadelphia with Denzel Washington, which won him his first Oscar
for Best Actor. The movie also features outstanding performances from
little known actors Gary Sinise (Apollo 13, Ransom, Deception), Mykelti
Williamson (Heat, Con Air, Three Kings, Ali) and Robin Wright-Penn,
credited as Robin Wright, (Unbeakable).<br /><br />FORREST GUMP starts off with the title character (Hanks) sitting on a
bench waiting for a bus when a young woman comes and sits next to him.
Here he starts his story by remembering his first pair of shoes, which
in the film are leg braces. Forrest tells us how he met his life-long
friend Jenny (Wright-Penn), how he served in the Vietnam war and how he
spent years running for absolutely no reason.<br /><br />Hanks plays Forrest Gump in a way that makes us feel what the character
is feeling so most that we develop a sort of relationship with him.
Gary Sinise has an excellent performance as Lt. Dan Taylor who hates
Gump because he saved him in Vietnam because he believes that he should
of died on the battle field but late becomes his friend, and who says
that Sinise can only play bad guys? Robin Wright-Penn handles Jenny's
drug addiction and the scene were she tries to commit suicide
brilliantly. Mykelti Williamson plays the part of Forrest's friend
'Bubba' Blue, whom he meets in the army, excellently considering that
this is the movie where he gets the most screen time that his ever had
in the movies that I've ever seen him in. Sally Feild (Mrs Doutfire,
Homeward Bound, Homeward Bound 2: Lost in San Fansico, Legally Blonde
2:Red White and Blonde) plays the part of Forrest's devoted mother very
well. The little boy who in years to come would rise to fame, Haley
Joel Osment (The Sixth Sense, Pay it Forward, A.I.), make an appearance
as Forrest Gump Jr.. Haley, Mr. Simonet (played by Kevin Spacey in Pay
it Forward) would be proud. This was one of the best movie's of 1994,
others included Pulp Fiction and Speed.*****
