2006_February 27 
The film follows the life of low-IQ Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks), as he
falls in love with Jenny (Robin Wright), makes two friends while in the
army in Lieutenant Dan and Bubba (Gary Sinise and Mykelti Williamson),
attends college, fights in Vietnam, and seemingly by happenstance meets
up with Elvis Presley, John F Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson, Richard Nixon,
and Governor George Wallace. Forrest goes on to become a very wealthy
and extremely successful businessman. Though the scenery changes, there
is one thing that remains the same through the entire movie: Forrest
will always fight for his Jenny and try to save her from whatever
trouble she is currently in.<br /><br />In this comedy/drama, Forrest keeps his good sense about him, using his
mother's sayings and advice as cornerstones of his ethics. When asked
if he is stupid, Forrest will always reply with: &quot;Momma always says
stupid is as stupid does.&quot; Although his IQ is only 75, which we are
told is five points below the public school systems' definition of
&quot;normal,&quot; he makes very intelligent decisions throughout the film.
Director Robert Zemeckis gives viewers a glimpse at the most important
events of the 1950s through the 1980s through Gump's eyes, where we
must take things as he sees them. Gump's simple talent of running
quickly takes him to many different places and makes him an icon to
many American people.<br /><br />Zemeckis does an excellent job with the special effects. Although the
video clips are not seamless, they do a great job of putting Gump into
the history which viewers already know. Forrest is at the door of the
schoolhouse when Governor George Wallace tries to stop desegregation,
and actually gives a young black woman a book that she has dropped. The
viewer can actually see Gump meet and greet three American presidents,
one of which he shows a bullet wound to his &quot;butt-ocks.&quot; Although Gump
is too good a man to dabble in drugs and rock and roll, we still
visualize what is going on in the counterculture, where Jenny is at
home at the rallies and through the disco era. And, because Forrest and
Jenny are complete opposites, we get to see every aspect of culture
from the 1950s through the 1980s. No matter what viewers are looking
for in a movie, &quot;Forrest Gump&quot; promises a good show.
