2005_September 16 
This movie is pathetic. Anderson has bought to life a boring,
stereotypical 'blockbuster' type film which is an insult to the
original games. Being a huge fan of the games, by the way, dating back
to 1996 when it was first released, I know what I'm talking about. In
this film, Anderson has developed his own ideas into the world of
Resident Evil and created what's known as 'The Hive'; a 'never heard of
before' top secret laboratory located in a beehive-like facility under
Racoon City. First off, I must admit, that the beginning of the film is
impressive - with the suspenseful clip of the virus being handled by a
white suited scientist provoking fear and excitement. Also the
introduction of the 'Umbrella'Corporation is pretty interesting. The
whole idea could've worked, I suppose, if Anderson had made the
trademark zombies look moreterrifying than just using extras with
bluish coloured skin and tomato sauce slathered across their face,
uttering 'Ohhh, Ahhh' and walking like they're either elderly or
disabled. The 'Licker' in this movie looks like a bloody cartoon! I
almost laughed at the image of it eating that dude on camera, it looked
ridiculous. Also, Anderson used what looked like Dobermans' covered in
a layer of barbecue sauce to portray the 'Cerberus'; which again, I
laughed at when I saw it at the cinema. There's not even mention of a
Tyrant in this film, which is again, a total disappointment, as
Tyrant's are the the ultimate enemy in each and every Resident Evil
game. Anderson should have based this film upon the original video
game. Somewhere dark, haunted, in an old mansion. He should have used
zombies that looked like decomposing corpses, which sound like a bag of
crushing bones with each step they take, instead of stupid people with
blue makeup running around sounding as though they're having an orgasm.
Characters from the video games would have also been nice in this film,
however Anderson, in his own little stupid world, creates 'Alice' and a
bunch of commandos who invade 'The Hive' and then just try and escape
again. In conclusion, I'd like to state that I truly believe this film
(and later its sequel Apocalypse) could have been a lot more successful
in they stayed true to original plots of the first and second games. I
would have enjoyed to see that Spencer mansion explored much better
than the Hive, and would have been more excited and scared by watching
zombies that actually look dead and that are frightening. I don't think
it was necessary for Anderson to make this into another stereotyped
blockbuster film, as it already had an incredibly strong fan base and
would have become a cult classic if it told the story of Jill Valentine
and Chris Redfield's survival within the Spencer Mansion in Resident
Evil 1. I wouldn't recommend it to any one who is a fan of the games as
it's insulting and you'll only end up being frustrated at Anderson's
lack of respect to the games' honour.
