2005_December 10 
&quot;Resident Evil&quot; is a LOT better than I ever hoped it would be and, even
though it still isn't a very good movie, that's quite a big compliment.
It's based on a video game (Capcom's hugely successful video game, to
be more specific) and usually that's not a very good sign, since all
those game-based horror movies have absolutely no story construction
and the special effects as well as the set pieces always look far too
hectic. &quot;Resident Evil&quot; looks good, very good even, and the story is
surprisingly endurable, despite being first-class nonsense of course.
The film is also very gory and action-packed but the only thing it
totally hasn't got are genuine frights. And I heard that rather
disappointed the fans of the game (personally, I never played it)
because that is generally acclaimed to be really terrifying with
disturbing images and unsettling graphics. The movie opens bustling and
to-the-point, with employers of the Umbrella Corporation (a company
that pretty much took over the world economy at the beginning of the
21st century) getting trapped after the outbreak of a dangerous virus.
The large building complex &#150; referred to as &quot;the Hive&quot; &#150; is located
underground and a team of heavily armed commandos, accompanied by two
security guards with amnesia, have to invade it for further
investigation. Once inside the Hive, the team encounters many
unpleasant surprises like zombie-employers, mutant Dobermans, hi-tech
anti-burglary measures and a top-secret army project with a gigantic
tongue! After the captivating opening, &quot;Resident Evil&quot; rapidly turns
into a routine horror/action movie with blunt characters and atrocious
dialogues. Paul W.S. Anderson borrows many ideas and style-aspects from
other genre films, like &quot;The Matrix&quot;, &quot;Aliens&quot; and George A. Romero's
trilogy of the Dead. Michelle Rodriguez and Milla Jovovich are
tolerable as the tough girls, but they work too hard on their
bad-ass-image. Would a smile, if only a little one, have hurt them? The
rest of the cast is filled with adequate performers even though they'll
most likely never get a star on Hollywood Boulevard. Anderson's
directing skills have obviously improved since &quot;Mortal Kombat&quot; and
&quot;Event Horizon&quot;, as this accomplishment looks a lot more surefooted.
&quot;Resident Evil&quot; is a very watchable film but I still don't regret
having waited patiently to see it until it aired on television. There
are a handful of admirable moments (my favorite remains the
death-by-laser scene) but overall it remains a boisterous mess.
