2002_March 15 

The makers of the games should be weeping on the keyboards right now,
because one of the best video games in history has been turned into another
cursed video game film (see also Double Dragon, and Mario Brothers).  Paul
Anderson has taken a perfect shot at making a great film and ruined it with
poor makeup and even poorer plot.  Number 1, i feel bad for George Romero
(originaly slated for this film) for being dropped from this project,
because he would have done a great job, because in the end Resident Evil is
at its core a game about ZOMBIES, not super-computers.  Who knows zombies
better than him???  Well after seeing this movie this wednesday at a sneek
preview I can firmly say not Paul Anderson.<br /><br />Ideas from the game were kept, but they were re-worked into something
perverted from the game, its as if the movie isnt about the game, but more
about making people jump and trying to get a hip teen crowd.  Of which it
is
missing a key element to that thing which it trys to be...gore.  There is
hardly any blood at all in a movie in which zombies are supposed to be
eating the people.  Black Hawk Down had 4 times the gore this &quot;horror&quot; film
did.  Even the game involves much more blood.  Dont get me wrong there is
plenty of violence, and lots of 'splosions and guns, but there is no saving
grace.  The most disappointing thing is the makeup and effects in the film.
The zombies look just like normal people with a bad limp, barely any had
any
facial or body appliances to create effect of decay.  Some of the computer
effects were laughable, and the main creature reminded me of the computer
alien from Alien 3 in 1993 (not a good thing)!
The acting is about as bad as the first game so thats the only thing close
to staying true to the game.  Michelle Rodriguez contunies to be type cast
as the snarling, tough female which she seems to excell with.  Even Milla
Jovovich wastes her time trying to attempt to act through this one.  The
rest of the cast is just kind of there, lucky them.
In conclusion, ha i know ive rambled enough, if you are looking for a true
survival horror film then rent something like John Carpenter's The Thing,
but if you want to be throw into a world were the only survival horror
youll
have is to try and not walk out of the theater go see Resident Evil.  My
only question is why did the drop George Romero...so sad, lets tell the man
who made the films the games are based off of he cant direct the movie
based
on the games...good job Hollywood, Good Job.<br /><br />
