2002_March 17 

I love the first 'Mortal Kombat' film.  It's one of my personal favorites.
It just so happens that the film I'd place next to it on my list is
'Resident Evil'... and they're both directed by Paul Anderson!  I'm a huge
fan of the video games, I've played them all.  Sure this film takes some
liberties (none of the characters are here at all, and there was no Red
Queen), but it successfully takes the majority of what made the games so
scary and suspenseful and mixes them with some outlandish action scenes.
Milla Jovovich (YUM!) is a great female action hero (and flashes some nip
to
boot!), and tackles the lead of the film rather well.  I've never been a
fan
of Michelle Rodriguez (she's all pout and no talent), but in the end I was
rooting for her and feeling sympathy for her character (she gets the snot
pummeled out of her over the course of the film).  There's the familiar
villains (Licker, zombies and the dogs), familiar scenes (both from other
films and the games) and familiar faces (Eric Mabius from 'The Crow 3' and
even Paul Anderson regular Jason Isaacs from 'Event Horizon' and 'Soldier')
that make it all the more fun.  The industrial metal music by Marilyn
Manson
is great, and the FX are for the most part pretty good.  My only major
gripe
is that while I was expecting this movie to be another 'Tomb Raider' (i.e.
complete crap) and it wasn't, I was also looking forward to seeing a good
splatter flick.  There is virtually no gore to be found in this film.  Sure
there's a head that gets cut off and some nasty looking zombies, but we
never see anyone get eaten or ripped apart... that's a staple for a zombie
movie.  One particular moment involves the Licker killing someone... it
obviously takes a bite out of the person's arm, but when it pulls back
there
is nothing... no marks, just blood that was there before it leant in for a
quick snack.  And upon seeing the victim at a higher viewpoint, we are
treated to a gigantic splatter of blood around the carcass, but there are
no
visible wounds on the person.  Lame!  I hope there is an unrated cut
available when this comes out on DVD.  And the end is great, leading
directly into a sequel that I hope gets made real soon!  9 out of 10, for
all the immense fun and suspense to be found in this surprisingly
entertaining survival horror film.
