2005_February 13 
We've had movies based on books, based on the Bible, based comic books,
based on songs, and ever since the mid 1990s, movies based on video
games. Resident Evil is based on a video game, but probably could have
been based on a night of heavy drinking and watching &quot;2001: A Space
Odyssey&quot; and &quot;Night of the Living Dead,&quot; one after another. In Resident
Evil, an evil bio-research company, called Umbrella Corp, or something
silly like that, manufactured a virus that brings the dead back to life
and causes them to want to eat other people. The standard horror movie
rules apply, if someone is bitten by a zombie, they will become a
zombie, zombies can only be killed after certain parameters occur
(almost always where something is severed), and the girl with the most
revealing dress and the biggest boobs will be the de-facto hero of the
film. Milla Jovovich plays Alice who wants to steal the virus to
somehow protect the world from it gets caught up in the building where
the virus is stored has a security breach, and that causes all heck to
break loose. This is where HAL 9000 takes over, errr, rather &quot;Red
Queen&quot; takes over, as the computer has to shut down the building to
make sure the virus does not escape, and will do anything to make sure
it doesn't happen. Some computer rebooting occurs, yada yada, and by
the end of the film, only 1 or 2 of the people who were in the building
at the beginning are alive by the end. The movie is directed by Paul
Anderson, who also directed &quot;Alien vs. Predator,&quot; so action scenes are
to be expected. Some of the action sequences are so dark, so
frantically edited, that while the scenes convey &quot;chaos,&quot; the message
is lost in the inability to figure out what is going on. I would tell
you who the men actors were, except they all look alike, so I couldn't
tell who was who, they all had the same height, same haircut, one guy
wore a blue shirt, but most of the others were even dressed alike. I
know there is only one casting list out there anymore, but this is
ridiculous. Not the worst film I have ever seen, but after seeing it, I
have to wonder why they felt compelled to make a sequel. I for one have
not heard about &quot;Resident Evil Mania&quot; out there.
