2003_December 27 

I am a big fan of the Resident Evil video games. Heck, I bought a
GameCube
just so I could play them, but this movie is such a disappointment.
First of all, the movie is so chock full of stupidity in the beginning
that
I was unable to re-engage my sense of goodwill.
First of all (and I'll start with the positives) the sets are excellent.
The
zombies are excellent. The zombie dogs are great (anyone who played the
video game will appreciate them, I think) and Mila Jovovich gives a solid
performance as &quot;Alice&quot;. (On the other hand, after seeing the film about
five
times, I can't remember her ever being called Alice and the last time I
saw
it I watched it just to see if anyone called her that. They didn't. If
I'm
wrong let me know.) Also British actor James Purefoy is good as Spence
even
though he wasn't given a great deal to do (if you want to see an even
better
horror movie check him out in the Brit horror film &quot;Lighthouse&quot;.<br /><br />Now, on to the stupidity. We're told the Hive has only one emergency
exit/entrance. Basically that means there are only two ways in and out.
Who
would agree to live and work there? Hasn't anyone ever heard of &quot;cabin
fever&quot;? Sure they have the screen by the windows that shows regular
traffic
as if they were above Raccoon City, but that isn't the same. Who would
willingly &quot;live and work&quot; miles underground in such conditions? On top of
that, we're told that the security system/computer the Red Queen went
homicidal four hours earlier by the security team. Wait a minute, the
security system went homicidal FOUR HOURS EARLIER and security is only
just
showing up? That's not a very impressive response time. On top of that,
we're shown that the biohazard leak is the work of a saboteur, yet for
some
reason the Red Queen (despite having security cameras set up literally
everywhere) doesn't know who it is (because if she did, it would have
been a
completely different movie). On top of that the false scares are
telegraphed
and most of the opportunities to genuinely scare the audience are missed
(there are a few that are done well, but since these are the highlights
of
the film I wouldn't dare spoil them). Though on the other hand, the CGI
for
the &quot;licker&quot; is less than impressive (hasn't anyone seen the &quot;Gollum&quot; in
LOTR? Note to budding horror/sci-fi directors: watch those films and
learn!). On the whole, this film would be best for horror film fans and
fans
of the video game. If, however, you're interested in the DVD because of
the
extras, don't bother. Mila Jovovich and Michelle Rodriguez dominate the
commentary track with giggling and other inanities drowning out the
director
just as he's about to tell what seems like an interesting anecdote. On
the
whole, a zombie movie that's been done before and after and done much
better. (How about 28 Days Later?).
