2002_March 12 

Friends, Gamers, Fellow movie goers, your friendly neighborhood
SmackmYackm
had the opportunity to see a special sneak preview of the new Resident
Evil
movie. Needless to say, I jumped at the opportunity, since it was free.<br /><br />Let me first start by saying that I walked into the theater tonight
completely biased and almost hoping for the movie to be a complete and
total
turd that didn't even deserve to be placed in the porcelain throne. I was
totally certain that this movie was going to stink so bad that the stench
would rise above the audience like a foul flatulent cloud and drive
everyone
out of the theater demanding their money back for a movie they didn't even
pay for in the first place. Well friends, I was happily
disappointed.<br /><br />From start to finish the movie just oozes everything that made me fall in
love with the games. From the eerie atmosphere to the jumpy feeling to the
hundreds of zombies this movie was from start to finish, Resident Evil.
Those familiar with the game will start to see the resemblances right away
and continue to see them all throughout the movie. The train, the mansion,
the ending that screams sequel and most importantly the walking dead, its
all there with the exception of the poor voice acting and the frustrating
control scheme. Surprisingly, it doesn't rewrite the story, but expands
it.
Very easily just another chapter in the story, it could be tied together
with the other chapters like a finely knit sweater. Even if you didn't
like
the game, but found the story compelling, you will like this movie.<br /><br />As a movie it plays very well. It has action, suspense, a little drama and
a
whole lot of `what happens next'. I was on the edge of my seat the whole
time wondering what was lurking around the next corner. The acting was
very
good considering the fairly unknown actors and the few, which in my
opinion
just aren't very good in the first place. All in all it is an action movie
but does not feel like one. A few scenes suspend belief, but after all it
is
basically science fiction. No overdone fight scenes or Matrixesque `wire
fu'
but a whole lot of run for your life. All these pieces come together to
make
a very well done movie. I also found out that this isn't a `Hollywood'
movie
so that may have something to do with the reason it didn't suck, but I
would
like to think that movie producers are finally starting to notice that the
movie goers are not all as stupid as they think we are.<br /><br />The bottom line, Resident Evil is a thrill ride good for both movie fans
and
gamers alike. I myself couldn't have been more pleased and I think you
will
feel the same. Whether you're a fan of the series or a gamer that would
like
to see a gamer movie made well or just a fan of the cinema, you should try
this one out. I think you'll be pleasantly surprised.

