2002_March 22 

Bollicks to you, Glacier.  You talk as if a midget with brass knuckles was
punching you in the balls during the duration of the movie.  I'll agree with
anyone who says this film wasn't art, but it was NOT a bad movie.  I'm not
gonna nominate it for an Oscar, but it was entertaining, and much more so
than &quot;Tomb Raider.&quot;
And before we get into the &quot;you don't know the game&quot; issue, let it be known
that I am a diehard fanatic of the Resident Evil series, having played all
of the games, owning two, and having beaten both &quot;2&quot; and &quot;Veronica&quot;.  The
game itself consists of walking around rooms being frightened by sounds, and
very often there isn't much zombie fighting involved.  Granted, ninja kicks
to the heads of Dobermans forced my eyebrow to rise a little, but I let it
pass, especially once they showed the Licker (only complaint I have is that
such a weak character would be made into the &quot;boss&quot;).  The special effects
weren't great, and I found myself chuckling to myself at the sight of the
zombies, but what got me into the film was the constant ambience.  It played
just like the game, with more moments where you're scared of the silence
than gunplay against approaching zombies.  As for accuracy to the game, it's
not all there (if it was, they'd be able to hold eight guns at a time, and
eat plants to cure their wounds), but as it is a prequel, it doesn't have
much to stick to anyway.  The beginning introductions were accurate, and the
ending was seamless, as well as being extremely creepy.
And while I had expected to hate this movie, as video game transitions
typically suck eggs (i.e. Super Mario Bros), I was very pleasantly
surprised, and while I can't repeat enough that I wasn't blown away by the
depth or artistry involved with the film, it was a good, mindless,
lets-shoot-the-hell-out-of-some-zombies movie.  And if this series which
seems like it's gonna sprout is true AND chronological, it's only gonna get
cooler.  Anyone who remembers a specific line from the end of the movie, and
knows what it's referring to...you know I'm right.
