2002_March 16 

I saw Resident Evil:the movie last night and i came out very excited
about
this franchise.
My background is that I have played just about all of the games except
for
Nemesis and I loved them. This movie captures the feel of the game very
nicely with great atmospheric work. All of the sets were very well done and
had a very eerie feel to them(the flooded offices were creepy! the bodies
float by). Another advantage of this movie is that they played it smart and
did not go for the obvious scares on most of them. For example(not ruining
anything) lets say there was a dead body laying down and you walked up to
it; the obvious scare would be for the body to move; but in RE expect
anything!
Sure the plot isnt spectacular(says a lot when a movie with no plot like
gladiator or crouching tiger can get awards) but this is survival horror!
Thats a plot within itself. Get out alive! Makes sense to me. The dialogue
is terrible but i got over it. The games themselves were not known for
their
great lines. (Thats jill shes the master of unlocking things,
WESKER!!!!!!!!!)
All in all the acting was good for this type of movie. Milla was
perfectly
cast and really played the part well.(the kicking of the dog was cool and
her dress is awesome!) Some of the minor characters are downplayed and
killed before we know their names ,but it was necessary.
This movie definitely had something for everybody who is into this type
of
movie. For the hardcore gamer they made references to the games(saving
bullets). For the horror fan you have definite suspense and terror from the
zombies. And for the hopeless romantic your mate will be in your arms
jumping and cringing from explicit decapitation = D
All in all i say see this movie! Even if you didnt play the games see
this
movie! I say it probably will make you want to experience the survival
horror(soon to be rereleased on gamecube ; )!!! Go in expecting a fun scary
movie with great special effects and visuals and you won't be
dissapointed!
Some other sites are saying this is a bad movie which is not true. I saw
13 ghosts at a free screening, THAT was a bad movie. So if you have any
desire to see this movie dont be fooled by the cruddy critics of the net
who
dont know what they are talking about. GO SURVIVE THE HORROR
MWAHAHAHAHAAH<br /><br />
