2004_October 31 
Alien has become fully franchised, unfortunately so like all good
things. When I first watched this film more than twenty years ago, the
terror and horror were not due to the double-mouth or the creepy thing
with the prehensile tail. The gut-splitting scene was horrifying but
not the best. I experienced the terror because Scott was careful enough
not to show the Alien too many times. In fact, only towards the end you
get a good look at the thing. At other times, it is for the fraction of
a second, no more. During the entire length of the film, you know that
this thing is somewhere in the ship, may be in the engine room or may
be in the accommodation, it can be anywhere. But you do not know it
until you come face to face with it, and when you do, you are dead. It
is classical horror, not the blood and gore/ face-with-third
degree-burns formula that we see today. The suspense and the wait for
the inevitable to happen- that sums it up. And then, like all great
horror films (I do not know if I should really classify this as a
horror film), that feeling in your stomach as you wonder if anyone in
the crew will survive to get back at the monster at all! <br /><br />Scott is excellent (and perhaps one of the few remaining in the English
cinema) at using light. See his Duellists, Blade Runner and even that
commercial Gladiator. Scott was an understudy of Kubrick and it shows
in his films (I believe Jan De Bont was an understudy of Scott in turn,
but in my view De Bont does not make good films. Period!). He uses
light (or the lack of it) to the maximum effect throughout the movie,
and space as the setting for the movie helps him. Whether it is the
stranded ship (the one that sends them the SOS), or the inner recesses
of Nostromo, it is the blend of shadows and twilight that drive the
horror and terror of the movie. Good acting and script too helped.
There is no excessive bonhomie or rivalry among the seven astronauts,
they are friendly with each other but also professional. That makes the
script more credible than its sequels. There are also minor twists in
the plot along the way (for those who have not watched the movie and
still are happily unaware, do follow the dialogue and scenes carefully
from the time they receive the SOS, and see how the scientific officer
does it) for those who follow these things but they do not detract.
They add to the excitement and horror. Finally, this film is genuinely
Sci-Fi.<br /><br />Sequels followed, glorified by cover stories in national magazines. But
none of them comes close. Aliens was made by Cameron, and it is more of
a western set in space, with the good, the bad and the ugly clearly
defined; there are no shades of grey. In fact, I do not understand why
characterization is needed in such movies. You can make a good movie of
this sort without imparting too much character to anyone or making a
villain out of some hapless Yuppie. But then Cameron has no subtlety or
art , and I do not much like his work. To date I fail to understand how
Aliens became such a huge success. It probably appeals to the popcorn
masses. About the third and fourth films in this franchise, the less
said the better. More recently, there was this hit film on predator
versus alien. In the interests of art and taste, such films should be
boycotted by the general public.
