2006_July 12 
The general consensus for horror culminated with science fiction now
days is not a good one, in general when one is made it turns out badly,
Chronicles of Riddick, AVP, resident evil, I could go on and on. I
greatly respect all directors who willingly take on the challenge of
creating any horror film, they&#39;re in my opinion some of the hardest
types of film to pull off, generally they are either great or terrible,
atmosphere is easy, whats hard is maintaining a solid plot to go around
it, some films are in the middle, as it where, the hills have eyes and
the new omen are prime examples, they are good attempts but I wouldn&#39;t
rush to see them again. There is so much more to horror than being
frightened, Alien wouldn&#39;t ever keep me awake at night, but I still
think its a masterpiece. Another common mistake is just a total gore
fest, those are fun, in a hideous way, but not generally good films,
some are balanced, some go way to far and get away with it (evil dead)
some go way to far and don&#39;t (Hostel). I know you might be thinking
that those two films aren&#39;t so bad, but I only mentioned them because
they weren&#39;t banned form viewing, I&#39;m not even going to start about
such things as driller killer and stuff you find in a psycho&#39;s
apartment. And now we get to why Alien is the best film of its type,
ever made. Because everything that horror should be came to together in
the right way, the isolation, the build up to the aloneness, the
betrayal, everything, one particularly good factor is the feeling of
relief before the big crunch at the end, war of the worlds tried a
similar tactic, but over did it a little, none the less, it works
wonders. The production team were good (british of course) H.R. Giger
provided some uniquely stylish and scary concepts and it spawn the
chest-bursting scene which was &#39;one of the best scenes for sending the
whole cinema into an uproar of all time&#39; I agree with that, apparently
people actually had to leave because it was that shocking, what amazes
me is that in terms of plot twists Jame Cameroon was able to match it
in shock factor in Aliens with the queen appearance, classic. Many
people call alien one of the greatest science fiction films of all
time, but I prefer to think if it in horror terms, it utilises science
fiction to become one of the greatest films of all time.
