2004_February 7 
On subsequent viewings, I can be clinical, so I'll have to admit it
doesn't scare me at all anymore. But when I saw it first day of release
in the theaters, Ridley Scott's ALIEN was the scariest thing I had ever
seen up to that point and long after. The mounting of atmosphere was
the thing: By the point, about 20 minutes in, that Hurt, Skerrit and
Weaver descend to that intestinal-looking ship, anyone seeing the film
for the first time in 1979 felt so uneasy they wanted to leave,
literally just get up, go shopping or driving, call a friend, and
forget this unsettling film entirely. I have talked to other people who
had the very same reaction. We were so scared, we actually thought our
choice to see the movie had been a mistake --specifically, because the
sense of foreboding was so thick.<br /><br />It's hard for me to explain that reaction, not feeling exactly the same
way about it any more. But I can see clearly, still, even after much of
its impact has worn off on me, that it did something exceedingly well
that most films these days fail at miserably: it created a sense of
extreme dread and unease by the slow incremental building of
atmosphere, block by block, without resort to a lot of juicy/gory
violence. It accomplished this by the natural evolution of events and
subtle revelation of terrain. The Ring did that exceptionally well,
too, as did Carpenter's The Thing.<br /><br />There is little more violence in ALIEN than in Hitchcock's PSYCHO from
20 years before. Like PSYCHO, ALIEN is an elegantly spare, judicious
and intelligent attempt to scare the hell out of you. These films were
made by really smart artists who realized that the geysers of gore
their imitators latched on to as a major influence, and multiplied to
the point of comedy in their films, are ultimately reductive. They
force us to retreat into a cool appreciation of the FX and the scope of
spectacle, and nothing more. The scares of PSYCHO and ALIEN are primal.
Their feeling, distinct from the FX, taps the makers' deepest dread,
and ours.<br /><br />Ten stars. Approached in the right spirit, setting aside all the reams
of films ALIEN inspired, it might still pack a wallop. It's hard for me
to tell at this point. But it will always be, with PSYCHO, one of the
two scariest films of my life.
