2004_July 10 

Three hundred years ago, the powerful weapon of the fifth element was
removed from Earth. Three hundred years later and pure evil has stirred
in the far reaches of space &#150; and is heading straight for Earth, with
traditional weapons unable to stop it. When the Fifth Element is
returned, the ship is attacked and seemingly lost &#150; but scientists are
able to recreate the fifth element and are surprised to find it is a
beautiful young woman, Leeloo. When Leeloo escapes custody she is
helped by ex-army taxi driver Korben Dallas. Korben takes her to the
priest she names, but he finds that everyone wants her for one reason
or another &#150; then he finds that both the army and the priest need him
to go on a mission to reclaim the missing four stones and save the
Earth from evil.<br /><br />I have seen this film several times and will usually come back to it if
I find myself in the mood &#150; but yet I also find myself thinking of its
flaws whenever anyone asks me about it. I can't understand why I do
this because I really do enjoy this film even though there is much I
sort of dislike about it. The plot is one of the weak points; generally
it is quite good as an idea but it has many weak points that make it
seem rather silly and overly busy. While this is not enough to really
damage the film I know that it has put some people off in some
audiences, but for me it was only a minor problem as these rather silly
bits were all part of a film that had a great sense of fun running
through it. Some of it didn't make much sense and at times I got the
feeling that the film had more ideas than it really knew what to do
with, but the majority of it worked well. The action is good but you
should be prepared for the fact that, like much of the film, it is done
with a certain amount of tongue in cheek humour. Suffice to say I never
found it dull and it has plenty going on for the majority of the film<br /><br />Visually is the area where the film is strongest and I could watch it
for this alone. The effects are great and are full of imagination as
well as looking very impressive. The design work of Dan Weil is very
well used and compliments the effects used &#150; the film looks lavish and
rich all the way through and matches the wonderful costumes from
Jean-Paul Gaultier. Of course much of the praise goes to Luc Besson who
has managed to pull this together really well to produce an endlessly
impressive film, which manages to be a fun and exciting sci-fi.<br /><br />The casting also backs this idea up and features many performances that
are spot on with tongue in cheek performances that match the tone of
the film perfectly. Bruce Willis delivers the same, great mocking
performance that he tried in Hudson Hawk but here he does it in a film
that is better structured and less silly than that one and it works a
lot better. He still delivers the goods as an action lead but he puts
his tongue just far enough in his cheek so as to be there without
hurting the film! I don't want to overdo it (after all &#150; he is Bruce
Willis!) but I thought he was very well cast here. Oldman is very hammy
but this also works as it matches the humour of the piece. Jovovich had
a very difficult role and it is easy to laugh at her baby talk etc but
I think she made it work well and gave a good performance against the
odds. Holm is pretty good and brings humour to his role as well.
Tucker, sadly, fails to do the same as these and his overblown
performance doesn't even fit well within this film (god knows where it
WOULD fit!) and he only succeeds in being shrill and very annoying
throughout &#150; not all his fault, his character is a wholly unnecessary
part of the film. The support cast is roundly good and features a raft
of famous faces in minor roles including Lee Evans, Brion James,
Tricky, Luke Perry and Kim Chan. Generally the cast seem to be right on
the same page as their director and compliment the material and tone
perfectly.<br /><br />Overall this is far from a perfect film and some may find the humour to
be at odds with the sci-fi action; but for my money the fact that most
of the film backed up this tongue in cheek tone made it all work. Some
of the plot has too many ideas or unnecessary elements but most of it
is really good and, combined with mostly good performances and stunning
designs and effects make for a film that I will watch many times even
if I cannot help but see the weaknesses that many others cannot get
past.

