2010_February 1 
Probably, the rating of the movie is such low, because it is not a
serious science fiction, otherwise, it is one of the most enjoyable and
colorful science fiction movies ever made and if you ask me, humor in
it is not uneven. By the way, Fifth Element is one of my all time
favorite science fiction movies. However, it is clearly seen that
almost many people don&#x27;t appreciate it and some find it ridiculous. The
science fiction movies that made after 2000 were mostly disappointing
such as Mission to Mars, Red Planet, Sunshine etc. As for Pitch Black,
it was good, but forgettable. What I am trying to say is that to make a
successful science fiction movie is not that easy. The plot of the
movie is not deep may be, but creative and not childish. There are a
few scenes I love and watched hundreds of times, because never felt
enough. The first one is the scene which Leeloo jumps over, the
following part is extremely enjoyable. Willis&#x27;s car is one of my
favorite engines in movies and the blue ones also, the design of them
is very appealing like some other designs. My second favorite is the
song part, in my opinion legendary, the song was reposeful and the
scene was inventive. The third one is the best action scene of the
movie, the gunfight scene at the saloon of the ship. Lots of people
hate the character Ruby Rhod, almost everyone who has seen the movie
talks about him like he ruined the movie, I liked the movie except for
Ruby Rhod etc. This is really sad. He was an extremely funny and
amusing character and Chris Tucker does not look superficial and his
best performance so far as well. Therefore, I LIKED him. By the way,
the movie is sometimes called Die Hard in space, I agree. Some designs
in the movie seem childish, kitsch or flimsy like the gun of Zorg, his
&#x27;toys&#x27; in his office, the head of Diva or the monsters, but it is great
fun, does not ruin the movie somehow and also it is made consciously
that&#x27;s the point. As mentioned, some say what a fake movie! No it is
not. In contrast, visual effects of the space ships and the planets are
first class. By the way, the creatures are also interesting characters
and so fun to watch. The afro American guy who changes his face was a
so popular and unforgettable image, still it is, if you ask me. Milla
Jovovich is really a talented actress and her best performance is in
this movie like Chris Tucker. As many people haven&#x27;t done, I haven&#x27;t
forgotten &#x27;&#x27;multi-pass&#x27;&#x27;. The laboratory scene is brilliant, so is her
performance and every time, I bother so that her waist will broke. The
city in the movie is extremely dazzling, one of the most well created
cities in cinema. This is a rare thing that in a movie, every actor
makes one of their bests, some of them make their best, but completely
different characters from each other. As for Gary Oldman, he is one of
the actors who can play every kind of character. He is almost as funny
as Rhod and very interesting, amusing character, especially his accent.
