1999_December 7 

I've heard more than one person compare this film to Blade Runner (one
[out
of several] of my favorite sci-fi films of the 80s), despite the somewhat
similar settings, it's hard to imagine two more different films.  This
colorful sci-fi action spoof is also a marked contrast to Besson's
previous
films La Femme Nikita and Leon (known as The Professional here in the
States), but does share some similarities with them.  Much like Nikita and
Leon have a distinctive French style to them (even though the latter is
set
in the U.S.), The Fifth Element takes a lot of stylistic cues from French
and Japanese comic books, both of which I'm a fan of, particularly Moebius
(who contributed some designs to The Fifth Element) and Shirow Masamune
(speaking of which, watch for a volume of the excellent Yakuza (Japanese
for
gangster) comic Sanctuary in Korben Dallas' apartment).<br /><br />The film isn't set so much in the future, more of a futurized comic book
version of the world that Nikita and Leon are set in.  I always find
futuristic worlds that are still grappling with contemporary problems more
interesting, maybe that's part of why I've never found the utopian world
of
Star Trek very interesting.<br /><br />From my understanding, Besson wrote an early draft of the story in high
school (along with an early draft of the under-appreciated The Big Blue),
which I think is cool, since I can relate, because in school, I had (as of
yet, unrealized) dreams of being a filmmaker, and I would often draw
cartoons or write stories to help relieve the tedium of high school.  Of
course, most of them were crap, and have no chance in hell of ever being
made into a film.<br /><br />Besson has a wonderful visual style, here, it's very interesting to see
him
apply that style to a sci-fi world rather than a contemporary world (as in
his films from Subway to Leon) or a bleak post-apocalypse world (as in the
lesser known than it should be Le Dernier Combat).  Of course, credit is
also due to production designer Dan Weil and cinematographer Thierry
Arbogast (Arbogast's cinematography was one of the few redeeming features
of
the dismal Wing Commander).  Along with John Woo, Luc Besson is my
favorite
action director (they may have a three-way tie with the Wachowski brothers
if they make more films like The Matrix). Eric Serra's excellent musical
score is also worth mentioning.  I really enjoyed seeing Gary Oldman
repeat
his villain role from Leon, although in this film, his character is more
cartoonish than evil.  I also really like a lot of the visual humor Besson
included, like the cigarettes that are 3/4ths filter, and the well-edited
sequence when the jet is taking of for Flosthon Paradise.<br /><br />A couple of complaints though, I would've liked to see Jean Reno play
Korben
Dallas, not that Bruce Willis did a bad job.  I wonder if Reno was
originally cast for the part, but backed out.  Reno is one of my favorite
actors, I could really imagine him in the role.  Another thing, I've never
found Milla Jovovich's fight scene very believable, maybe I'm just spoiled
from having seen so many kung fu movies, particularly the newer ones, like
with Jet Li.  There are also a few plot holes and lapses in logic, but I
choose not to worry about them too much, this isn't a film to take
seriously
or over-analyze.  I say if you can't enjoy the occasional silly action
flick
(like this one, which succeeds admirably on that level), you're taking
life
too seriously.
