2003_February 25 
When I first heard about this movie, I knew I wanted to see it and I
had a hell of a time when I did. I could see right away that this film
was heavily influenced by the work of French graphic artist Moebius.
Sure enough, when I saw the credits, there was Moebius' name. The film
captures the European sci-fi style that permeated Metal Hurlant and
featured the work of Moebius and other top European artists. I think
this is one of the facets that many film critics couldn't understand.
They only seem to be able to handle Kubrick or Lucas. I was amazed that
many called the film incomprehensible. It makes more sense than the
last third of 2001: A Space Odyssey!<br /><br />The film has nice balance of action, drama and comedy. It doesn't take
itself too seriously, nor does it degenerate into camp; and, it is
always exciting. Bruce Willis puts in a nice turn as the hero and Mila
Jovavich shines as Leeloo. Gary Oldman gets to chew some scenery and
Ian Holm is always good. Heck, even Tiny Lister is passable, which is
saying a lot for him. The music is outstanding, as is always the case
with Eric Serra. The opera piece was hypnotic. I didn't even mind Chris
Tucker.<br /><br />I have heard some people claim that the story is borrowed from the
Harry Canyon sequence from Heavy Metal. Actually, Harry Canyon was
borrowed (or stolen) from Moebius and Dan O'Bannon's &quot;The Long
Tomorrow&quot;, a Dashiell Hammet rif in a sci-fi setting. The producers
were unable to secure the rights for the story and created their own,
similar sory (much like Tarna was inspired by Arzach). The Fifth
Element owes more to the Valerian graphic novels by Jean-Claude
Mezieres and Pierre Christin. These stories date back to the late 60's,
and Mezieres was a conceptual designer, along with Moebius, for The
Fifth Element. Moebius' &quot;Incal&quot; was also a major influence. In fact,
the original story for this movie was changed to make the hero a taxi
driver (instead of a factory worker) after seeing a flying taxi in
Mezieres' latest Valerian album.<br /><br />Although there is no set up for a sequel, I would love to see these
characters again, or see Besson work in sci-fi again. I need something
to take away the bad taste of the new Star Wars films! (By the way, was
the Princess Leia hairdo on the female soldier a deliberate homage? I
laughed my head off when I saw that scene in the theater.)
