2004_January 10 

This is, unquestionably, the best and only truly respectable sci-fi
action
film I've seen and deeply enjoyed. An exception here would be Terminator
2,
but that movie is much more intended to make you as trigger-happy as
possible. &quot;The fifth element&quot;, on the other hand, is more just a
marvelous
computer-effects movie made to made you laugh, cry where applicable, and
fall in love momentarily with the all the down-to-earth characters, no
matter how much the plot tries to convince us otherwise.<br /><br />My favorite thing about this movie, the fact that makes it peasant to
watch
over and over, is that despite of it being a sci-fi, there are no scenes
in
it at all that can typically give us a bad stomach, bring us nightmares,
and
just typically mess with our heads more than we would willfully allow
them.
The strategies used to prove this movie to be set in the year 2214 (not
2300) are the out-of-this-world car designs, appartment designs, airport
designs, the flying ship-looking machines that come to your home to bring
you food, and the clothing designs. Some of these may be a big extreme,
but
they are accompanied by very good humor, letting the audience know they
are
meant as a joke.
In addition to that, the directing job for this movie is simply
perfectuous
(hope that's a word). Every scene is edited not too long, not too short.
We're never for a second left hanging on unanswered questions or dull
moments. Sometimes the plot thinkens and gets a bit confusing, but all
the
dialogues are done not too seriously, so the viewer knows that even if he
or
she misses the &quot;main point&quot;, there will still be enough camera tricks and
effects to explain and fulfill the final movie effect by the director.
That's why this movie stands out so much for me.
And, last but not least, Milla Jovovich... This girl had acted so simply
and
&quot;without a care in the world&quot;, that I actually believed she was seeing
everything for the first time. Not mentioning her great charm and beauty,
she had kept us on the edge of our seats just by the little smirks and
voice
inflections (again, hope that's a word) she used to be something other
than
human. The first time I saw her smiling like that I had a feeling she was
in
some way different at nature than other actresses I've seen trying to
accomplish that kind of charm, but never getting there. Then I went
online
and found out she's from Kiev, Ukraine. Just FYI. Anyways, this movie is
worth watching for everyone, especially if you like fight scenes but
don't
prefer seing people being sliced in half with their insides falling out
(like in Ghost Ship). If you want a good thriller that will make you all
jolly on the inside instead of disturbed, this may be your only answer
out
on the Hollywood market right now.
