2005_May 22 
I'd always had the impression that THE FIFTH ELEMENT had been set in
the far flung future which caused by the oft shown clip of the heroine
crashing through the taxi roof ( Very similar to the scene in PULP
FICTION also starring Bruce Willis ) so imagine my surprise when this
movie starts of in the deserts of North Africa in 1914 . It's an
opening scene that has featured in many movies and TV shows and while
it's not very original it is a beautiful location , but not as
beautiful as what happens next when the aliens land and make their
first appearance in a very memorable scene that had me thinking I'd be
watching a great movie <br /><br />Oh dear . The problem with having a superb opening is that it's
difficult to keep up the consistency and I think this is where the rest
of the movie fails . Before too long we jump 300 years into the future
where the Earth is in danger from pig faced aliens . I am not
xenophobic and have no prejudice about mankind being threatened by pig
faced aliens any more that mankind being threatened by mutants in a
metallic shell screeching &quot; EX-TER-MIN-NATE &quot; or aliens disguised as
showroom dummies . No my problem is that director Luc Besson seems to
frequently forget all about pig faced aliens and impresses us with set
design and special effects thereby sacrificing narrative drive . We see
a machine that reminds characters to stop smoking , we see a pod that
turns itself into a machine gun/cross bow / flame thrower / rocket
launcher , in fact there's hardly a scene in the whole movie in which
the plot isn't held up without the urge to show us what a great job the
guys and gals at the prop and FX departments have done . Oh bravo - but
this is superfluous to the plot and nobody likes to see a show off <br /><br />One curious aspect Besson has done is to bring one of the most uneven
casts ever assembled for a movie . No doubt Besson will claim it's an
eclectic mix but I have to stick to my guns and say it's uneven . Ian
Holm is totally convincing as is the late John Bennet who played Holm's
predecessor at the start of the movie and as you might expect most of
the best performances come from British equity members . Bruce Willis
is Bruce Willis but was no doubt cast in order to make the movie appeal
to an American audience . Tricky is a strange casting choice but holds
his own while Oldman's accent is very irritating , I don't mean
unconvincing I mean irritating . Without doubt the worst performance
belongs to Chris Tucker who nearly brings the fim down <br /><br />Like the cast THE FIFTH ELEMENT is very uneven . It has a great opening
15 minutes then becomes just another flashy overblown futuristic
fantasy and long before the final credits rolled I wished that the
producers had developed the opening into a 100 minute feature film set
in North Africa circa 1914
