2011_June 22 
Here we go again, they release a fun super hero flick and everybody
complains about wanting a darker film, critics bash it relentlessly and
one is left feeling almost bad if they enjoyed it. I am such a person,
I found this movie to be a fun summer film featuring a comic book
hero..comics the form of literature aimed at kids, but for some reason
people want it to be dark and disturbing to the highest degree. I begin
to feel we have to many darker image people out there, this is
evidenced by the fact that I read a review here for Kung Fu Panda 2 and
the reviewer said he liked it better than the first because it was
darker, because hey a movie about a freaking giant panda that performs
martial arts should be dark! eyes rolling. The critics I am guessing
hate it because Warner Bros forgot to mail them their check. Yeah I
said it, how else to you explain a film series like Twilight getting
better and better reviews as it progresses and its movies grossing more
money hence more money to bribe cause at the film&#x27;s core is a gal that
has all the charisma of paper, a dude whose other films get released
directly to DVD and a dude who is simply a slab of beef. This film does
deserve some criticism, I was not fully impressed with it myself and
feel it could have been better, but it is not the end all worst comic
movie of all time. Neither is &#x22;Batman and Robin&#x22;, like a lot of people
say, I give the crown to that Captain America movie of 1990. A film
featuring a man with a gal going one place to the next for 80 percent
of the movie. Seriously, one review seemed to put down the film simply
based on the Green Lantern&#x27;s powers at one point criticizing the size
of the fist he uses to take out the people attacking him. The film has
a creature being awoken and escaping its prison, the creature is called
Parallex. This creature devours the inhabitants of planets feasting on
their fear. It goes after the green lantern who imprisoned him, a being
named Abin Sur. This battle is brief, but so has the feel of a comic
book to me. He is wounded and must pass on his ring, he makes it to
Earth and a test pilot named Hal Jordan has the ring passed to him. He
must learn how to use the powers of the ring in time to fend off the
threat of Parallex and must battle a man who ends up infected by this
evil creature when examining Abin Sur&#x27;s body. The effects are rather
good, I liked the planet of the Green Lantern&#x27;s. The final battle was
also enjoyable. I like Ryan Reynolds and I thought he did a good job as
Hal Jordan, however, if you do not like Ryan you will most likely not
enjoy this film. Of course, not liking the movie for this reason is
much better than the it isn&#x27;t dark enough reason. Seriously, not all
super heroes are Batman, as he should be portrayed in a more dark and
serious tone, Green Lantern is not one in my opinion and this is only
my opinion. I chuckled during the scene when he is the Lantern checking
up on his childhood friend and love. Now on to the negatives, of which
this film has a few. In fact, I was close to rating this one a six, but
thought it went by to fast and entertained me to much for a six, but a
couple of the flaws are great. One is something I absolutely agree with
the one critic who mainly bashed the Lantern&#x27;s powers and that is the
character of Hector Hammond the human villain of the piece. Not saying
Peter Sarsgaard did a bad job, in fact he did a good job portraying an
obviously lonely man whom has few friends, his dad wishes he was Hal
and is in love with a girl he can never have. The problem is how do you
pull against a man like this? I have never felt so bad for a villain in
my life, add to that they make him grow more and more deformed until he
is finally in a wheel chair for the final battle. The man also gets
upset because his father pulled strings for him, I am guessing we as
Americans are supposed to dislike him for this reason cause in our
country it is not what you know, but who, but this only made me
sympathize with him more. Every scene he is in I feel pity. I mean I
can understand where a villain like Magneto is coming from, but I do
not feel sorry for him because his powers are great and he commands
great respect even from his enemies, the guy here at one point cries in
pain in his first battle with the Lantern and I felt terrible for him.
You are supposed to go &#x22;Yes!&#x22; when the hero hits the bad guy, not &#x22;poor
guy&#x22;. Another problem is the fact that the Lantern&#x27;s powers do not work
on yellow is never really looked at. This is a major thing in the
comics and all the cartoons I have ever seen, here it is not really
touched on all that much except that yellow is the color of fear and
such. The Lantern&#x27;s training session seemed to come out of nowhere and
his first appearance should have been a bit more spectacular as well.
However, despite these gripes overall I enjoyed the movie more than
most people apparently and I am saddened by the fact that this film is
not going to do enough to warrant a sequel in all likelihood meaning I
will never get to see Hal Jordan fight the man everyone associates as
being his greatest adversary.
