2011_July 23 
It seems every summer blockbuster season, fans and critics alike seize
upon a particular film to victimize and this year it seems Green
Lantern is the chosen candidate. Warner and DC&#x27;s first big effort to
success fully bring one of their lesser known characters to the big
screen GL had a decent pedigree. Martin Campbell has made some very
good pictures in his time ( Goldeneye, Mask of Zorro, Casino Royale)
some decent efforts (Edge of Darkness) and some downright awful ones
(Vertical Limit) so he has was seen as a fairly safe pair of hands for
this. Ryan Reynolds, when he wants to be, can be a very likable and
effective leading man and again seems like ideal casting for the cocky
test pilot turned inter-galactic hero. Mark Strong as Sinestro is
largely perfect casting, while Peter Sarsgaard is creepily effective in
his under developed role as villain Hector Hammond and Blake Lively is
pretty too look at but don&#x27;t blame her too much, her role is
essentially your typical love interest. Where GL does succeed is in
visual effects which are largely effective, Reynolds likable hero,
Strong&#x27;s Sinestro (who really should have been the main villain)
Sarsgaard who gets the most out of his villain and fan boy pleasing
winks to the audience (Amanda Waller, Corp member cameos). However the
film also has many serious flaws, chiefly the lack on time spent on Oa
which largely reduces fan favorite Lanterns like Kilowog and Tomar Re
to little more than cameos. The Guardians meanwhile are almost totally
sidelined, popping up only to deliver exposition. Blake Lively,
gorgeous though she is, is given little to do other than provide a love
interest. The choice of Parrallax as the main villain and the movies
depiction of him also irks, basically coming across as an evil cloud of
space vomit. Also the film&#x27;s obvious attempts to ape the Marvel formula
doesn&#x27;t really work out. DC&#x27;s characters have always been more mythic
than their Marvel counterparts. The best DC movies (Nolan&#x27;s Batman
series, Donner&#x27;s Superman) realize this but GL tries to inject too much
humor that doesn&#x27;t connect. All in all, GL has more pros than cons and
is nowhere near as bad as the reviews would have you believe. But
compared to this year&#x27;s other superhero flicks (the superb Thor and the
excellent X-Men: First Class) it falls somewhat short. A sequel may
well shore up the problems, but given the movies dismal reception
critically and commercially don&#x27;t count on it happening anytime soon.
