2011_June 21 
Ryan Renyolds has began to enter the world of Comic Book/Graphic
Novel-Based films with his part in Marvel&#x27;s X-Men Origins, and now
Detective Comic&#x27;s Green Lantern. With rumors, releases, and
pre-production of films based on other comic book characters; it is
obvious that many &#x22;super hero&#x22; films, will be released in the next few
years. Personally, I am not the biggest fan of Ryan Renyolds. With a
few exceptions, (Adventureland) he is unable to play a role without the
use of quick witted humor and sex jokes involved. While this may be a
detail that is not directly related to this film, it supports the fact
that Renyolds was not the perfect choice for the lead role. The makers
of this film should have realized that an actors body fitting the
profile of the main character does not justify a perfect match. The
acting cannot take full blame. This film seemed cheaply written, with
very little use of originality. The writers used action sequences with
the use of special effects to make up for the poor attempts at
realistic dialog. While this effort may work in other films, other
films tend to use good graphics in the making of their special effects.
The computer makeup of the other green lantern characters was overdone.
The costume makeup combined with the poor attempts at special effects
could be described as almost animated. The special effects of this film
remind me of the special effects in the film Spawn, which was made over
10 years ago. With the production of films to release characters of
Marvel&#x27;s Avengers, I believe that DC, hopes to compete by releasing
characters of the Justice League. This film, in that attempt, seemed
very rushed. With the critically failing release of Superman Returns,
Detective Comics has been able to redeem their image with the releases
of Batman Begins and The Dark Knight. The Green Lantern ended this
short winning streak of films based on Detective Comics. Seeing this
film makes me dread the release of anticipated films such as Wonder
Woman, and wait anxiously for the release of The Dark Knight Rises.
Bottom line, Green Lantern was not the worst Comic Book-based film that
I have ever seen, but it is definitely in the top 5. If your girlfriend
has left you for a close friend, your parents have disowned you, you
have been fired from your job as a floor manager at McDonalds, and you
just want to relax and watch a GOOD movie; Green Lantern is not the way
to go.
