2011_January 10 
Goodfellas is an exhilarating, nonstop joyride depicting the rise and
fall into decadence of a small group of mobsters with enough
determination and confidence to succeed anywhere. Fortunately for them,
once they get to the top of the mafia in the 1960s and 1970s, the idea
of staying at the top became regular: why think about falling when no
one can touch you? Such is the mind-frame one must take into screening
Goodfellas.<br /><br />In his long, storied and brilliant career, this might be Scorsese&#x27;s
most technically sound and polished work. By this time, Scorsese had
perfectly built his own, unique style of shooting and in this case, the
material supported the visuals completely. Known for such gangster,
hard-nosed films that he made in the 1970s and early 1980s, Scorsese
put his talents to great use once again to create and updated portrait
of the American dream as witnessed and developed by the very people who
began its genesis.<br /><br />With his fluid and straightforward style, Scorsese gives so much
information about the ins and outs of running and be part of a mafia
clan that by the end, the audience is more than well-informed. The
voice-over by Ray Liotta is utilized in the most effective way. This is
his story; flashbacks, freeze frames and other camera tricks are all
used to emphasize and translate what needs to be said. There is also
the constant energy of the film. Nearly every scene has a raucous
feeling, as if these characters are living their lives to the fullest
every night with no care for tomorrow. We get to know and understand
these characters so well that when their ultimate fate is revealed, we
are at once surprised, appalled, and satisfied.<br /><br />In the end, what is important to remember while watching this
masterpiece, and what will always stand out, is the phenomenal
performances of Robert De Niro, Liotta, Lorraine Bracco and especially
Joe Pesci as the incredibly volatile hit-man Tommy De Vito. Also
memorable is Scorsese&#x27;s use of the camera along with his dynamic
soundtrack of the era and the sharp, effective editing with his
legendary collaborator Thelma Schoonmaker. In the years to come, this
may be the film Scorsese will always be remembered for. It is an
American tale of what this country and a life of crime have to offer as
well as all the consequences that follow.
