2004_March 26 
<br /><br />Not only is this the best gangster film I have ever seen, but it has the
best soundtrack I have ever heard and without great music, sometimes you
don&#145;t have a great film.  I wouldn't recommend buying the soundtrack as it
only has half of the songs on the film.   I believe that this is Scorsese's
masterpiece bar none and does it with such elegance and style that it will
be hard for any director to try and touch this film in the coming future as
the only film which I think isn't far behind Goodfellas is Scorsese's other
gangster masterpiece, the overlooked Casino.<br /><br />What excites me to this day and will do for generations is the way Scorsese
uses music to his scenes and let's face it, he is a mastermind with his
music choice as it is so different.  The idea to start the film with Tony
Bennett's Rags to Riches which is perfect as it fit's Henry Hill's life from
something to nothing and don't get me started on the scene where lot's of
gangsters wind up dead in many places with the beauty of Derrick and the
Domino's Layla in the background just works on so many
levels.<br /><br />But the story alone is just fascinating to see how a character like Henry
started his life as a somebody and for it to end in Henry Hill's remaining
last words `an average nobody'.   I can't remember which film it was that
was up against Goodfellas at the Oscars, I think it was Dances With Wolves
but how do you watch a film like Goodfellas and then lose out to a director
Oscar To Dances With Wolves.  Don't get me wrong I love Dances With Wolves
but Goodfellas is every director dream of a true gangster biopic.  Let's
face it, the only Oscar Scorsese is ever going to see is probably a Life
Time Achievement award and he will probably be dead if they were going to
give it to him but I maybe wrong with The Aviator Coming
up.<br /><br />Ray Liotta out does himself with Goodfellas and he is still not as known as
an actor as he should be, by just watching this and other films like Copland
and Narc you know he is just a dynamite actor who doesn't star in so many
films.   Robert De Niro is on top form as is Joe Pesci and Paul Sorvino but
the one thing that stands out most in this film is the editing by the great
Thelma Scoonmaker.  Her quick cuts in between scenes is what makes
Goodfellas such an outstanding achievement and the same goes for the
cinematography.  Just look at the scene where Henry takes Karen to a posh
club and the camera starts rolling from outside when they both get out of
the car and they go through the back way going passed many people and going
through the kitchens and backstage area without the camera cutting is just a
stroke of genius and he does the same in Raging Bull and Gangs of New York
and this is what I admire a lot and most in Scorsese Films, the way he just
turns a simple scene into something so outstanding it makes the film more
original.  I am a film student and I have tried to do these shots without
any shake and continuity and it's quite hard and very challenging to get it
just right so when watching Goodfellas it just stands out in my mind and
always will which is what makes Goodfellas so special as it contains some of
the best Acting, Directing, Editing, Cinematography and Musical Soundtrack I
have ever seen.
