2000_January 4 

Why is it so hard to really say why American Pie just didn't do it for me?
My expectations, perhaps? Of course, like any movie you have a feel for what
you hope to _get_ out of the movie right before the lights dim...I was
expecting something outrageous and over-the-top, especially because I had
the Unrated DVD starting to spin. I mean, this cut couldn't even land an 'R'
rating. South Park did (although certain MPAA members came out later
&quot;regretting&quot; their decision to shy away from the dreaded NC-17), so I was
expecting something on par. Truth is, American Pie bogied, if not
three-putted. It had a throw away message (sort of like South Park, but less
campy and almost taken seriously, a definite negative) about the virtues of
beating down peer pressure. It had forgettable characters and  a weak
script. But that's hardly why I was excited to see it...I wanted pure,
unadulterated, NC-17 teetering outrageousness...and I didn't get
that.<br /><br />The mutilated pie was funny. And I never really thought about how useful a
flute might be...but that was about it...all the gags seemed so...forced. I
couldn't tell if I was supposed to take the movie seriously or not, and
that's its inherent flaw. If you're going for the push-the-envelope gusto,
by all means strap on the booster rockets and GO (which, by the way, was a
far better movie chronicling the outrageousness of teen angst.). Jim and the
gang were so...serious, and even if that was the intent, it wasn't very
amusing as it unfolded. For example, as Jim consistently struck out with a
man on first, I really didn't care...it didn't HURT, hit the brotherly
sympathy nerve, like the answering machine scene in Swingers. All the
characters were positively dull and terribly zero-dimensional.<br /><br />I don't mean to analyze this movie to death although I probably just did,
which makes me something of a hypocrite. The bottom line is that it's
supposed to transcend critical review and just be damn funny, no more and no
less. But it wasn't and that's what made me wonder, Why?
