1999_July 19 

american pie was hilarious!. this is the first movie i've
seen in a while that has likeable characters to go with
truly hilarious movie. theres been teen movies that are
funny,that have came out in the 90's,but none i can call
hilarious. this is the funniest teen movie in years. it's
also very entertaining. in my opinion american pie is in
the top three of the best teen movies of the 90's!. it
could also be (THE) best teen movie of the 90's!. but it's
at least the funniest. american pie is also the funniest
movie of the year. i thought i would not see another movie
this year be as funny as austin powers: the spy who
shagged me. untill american pie came around. american pie
is funnier than austin powers,and blows away the south
park movie. the jokes and bad language got old after
awhile in south park. the jokes in american pie never get
old. american pie is maybe the best movie i've seen this
year so far,with summer of sam a tad behind. im gald to
see R-rated teen movies back. like varsity blues and
american pie. i hope they keep makin' R-rated teen movies
instead of PG-13. but there are still some PG-13 teen
movies that are still really good,like 10 things i hate
about you. but the best are the R-rated ones. the plot for
american pie is very original. and some scenes in american
pie have the original feel to them. american pie is a bout
four friends that are seniors in high school who are also
virgins. once they find out that the nerdiest kid in
school has just scored,they make a pact to lose their
virginity. most of the humor comes from jim played by
(jason biggs). he gets caught doing everything. the father
and son talks are very funny. all the characters are very
likeable,and cool. i've seen this movie 3 times already. i
will see it more. there are so many scenes that are
unforgetable. it should become a teen movie classic. i
also think american pie is funnier than most comedies from
last year,like theres something about mary,and others. all
in all a great movie! i give american pie ***1/2 out of<br /><br />****
