2004_October 24 
Dazed and Confused has the kind of glee and convictions that only a
film that strikes an extremely strong cord with a specific group of
people (a cult classic) can have. It has incredible scope that brings
out certain themes that are all loosely connected to one and other by
simple truths of teenage life (and of life in the 70's). The
characters-most of them-have little depth but are undeniably touching
and funny. A lot of the film is just out to have fun, filled with silly
pranks and car chase scenes. There are also times when the film seems
to be treading water. Yet this is undeniably one of the best comedies
of the nineties because of its wit, fabulous performances, innocence,
and good nature (the last two attributes are nearly impossible to find
in modern comedies). There aren't any characters that cream of the crop
director Richard Linklater seems to have any hatefulness toward-even
the nasty ones. The characters are memorable in their own
two-dimensional way thanks to performances by Adam Goldberg, Michelle
Burke, Matthew McConaughey, Sasha Jenson, and Joey Lauren Adams-just to
name a few; when all of these characters work together they create a
real high school environment (though an exaggerated one). The finest
performance comes, surprisingly, from young Wiley Wiggins as a nervous
junior high school student going into high school; he packs a stronger
emotional punch than any other character in the movie and the fact that
he overacts at one point and still keeps his screen charisma is a
testament to his endearing presence; without his contribution, this
film would probably be just a little bit better than your average wild
party movie. Here Linklater proves that he can make a relatively
mainstream movie without losing his convictions as an artist as he
criticizes our schools' way of making students prepare so much for
their future that they forget about the present. Also worth noting: the
film has an incredible, gritty visual style by Lee Daniel.
