2002_February 3 

I can't get over how good this movie is.  Since seeing it, I wished I
would've lived back in the '70s.  No offense, but the 21st century sucks!
I
think that Marisa Ribisi's character was right about that whole every other
decade thing:  how one decade things are great and the next decade things
suck!  However, I disagree with her on which one's suck and which ones
rock.
The 50's seemed like they would've been fun.  They weren't as clean cut
and
innocent as they seemed to be, just go see GREASE and THE LAST PICTURE
SHOW.
Anyone who falls for that LEAVE IT TO BEAVER crap is mistaken.  The 60's
probably wouldn't have been my type.  All of the hippies and the beach
parties, etc...it just wouldn't have worked for me.  The 70's had to have
been a great time.  School was a breeze, parties were everywhere, and you
could just do anything.  The 80's would've been too gaudy and tacky for me.
The 90's were good for me.  I had the best times of my life in the 90's,
even though I can hardly remember them sometimes (I was a little boy then,
and now i'm only in my early teens).  Now the turn of the century.  Since
2000 came, everything has sucked.  School is much harder, if the girls
aren't sluts, they're bitches, and there are too many tragedies in the
world, not to mention our own personal hardships in life.<br /><br />Getting to the movie, it was excellent.  The characters were real, and I
could relate to some of them.  When you watch it, this movie makes you wish
you were there in it.  These people seemed to be having the time of their
lives (even though some of them were complaining about the town being dead
and the 70's sucking).  The acting was excellent.  It's a shame we hear
virtually nothing about the actors today.  But some of them have gone on to
successful movie careers (Parker Posey, Jason London, but he's kind of
faded
in recent years).  The music is one of the best things about the movie.
All
the songs are great and fun to listen to.  I'd recommend this movie to
anyone and everyone.
20/10
