1999_September 22 

Dazed and Confused evolves around the lives of a group of teenagers in
suburban Texas on the last day of high school in 1976.  That's all you
really need to know.  All I can say is that this is hands down one of my
favorite films ever.  I think anybody between the ages of 20 and 45 has
some
kind of attachment to this movie.  We all know at least one of the
characters really well (that is, we all have somebody in our personal
cliques, or have forged friendships with at least one person who is
characterized in this film).  The ambience and atmosphere of high school
is
perfectly captured by Linklater, from the parties, beer drinking, pot
smoking, keggers in the woods, cars, subgroups and general outlook that
high
schoolers have.  They live for the most part, for the here and now (except
for Matthew McConaughey's Wooderson who  desperately clings to his past).
I've read other reviews which dwell on the film's &quot;non existent plot&quot;.  No
statement about the film can be further from the truth.  There is not so
much a conventional plot as there is Linklater's desire to make you
reflect
upon your own high school years.  For those few who can't see it, are you
aware of the parallel betwen Pink and Mitch???  Mitch gets paddled just
like
Pink did (&quot;They got me right after Little League practice.&quot;).  Is it
merely
coincidence that Mitch winds up hanging out with Pink and his crew that
evening; or how easily that group of seniors accept Mitch??  I don't think
so.  For me, Dazed and Confused is a bookmark in the pages of my life
(despite the fact that I graduated high school 11 years after the film
takes
place).  Its not just what you see, but even more so, what you don't see.
You relate to the good times each person/group has had (both past and
current) although you're not even there.  Dazed and Confused is more than
just a funny movie about a bunch of high schoolers, it has a direct
connection to just about anybody who sees it.  Bravo to Mr. Linklater.

