<p>

Goodfellas makes you feel like you are watching guys that you know or knew. 
To this day, I have a friend that still talks like Jimmy Two Times.  He
always says things like &quot;Nice Nice&quot; and that was just a background piece in
Goodfellas.  But that is the point, all that is background is just as
important as the main players and locales.  It all paints us a perfect
picture of what mob life must be like.  And with all due kudos to The
Godfather, but there is no other film that has ever made mob life look so
real and feel so tangible the way Goodfellas does.<br /><br />To say that Joe Pesci is the best part of this film would be to discredit
the rest of the cast, but at the same time, you have to mention him in some
way.  His portrayal of Tommy is haunting.  Here is a man that is so insecure
and wants to be the top dog, the made man so bad that he can't decipher
between what is a joke and what is disrespect towards him.  Of course the
scene in question is when he shoots a common boy for telling Paulie to screw
himself after Paulie shot him in the leg.  You would think the guy has a
right to let off a little steam and vent, but Paulie is always looking for
the diss.  He is always looking to find some hidden gesture from someone
that is putting him down.  Even at the beginning when he is getting on Henri
in the now famous &quot; You're a funny guy &quot; scene.  He is kidding with Henri
but deep down inside he is angry with him, you can see it and feel it.  Joe
Pesci gave the performance of his career and he richly deserved to win best
supporting actor that year.<br /><br />The story and script by Pileggi is sheer inside brilliance.  You can feel
the inside observations that no one can have except for a guy that spent his
whole life on the inside.  They ring so true and they get into your blood. 
From scenes like the fat guy running around delivering messages to the other
mob guys because he doesn't like to use the phone to the scene when Henri,
Paulie and Tommy have Billy Bats in the trunk but they stop off at Tommy's
moms house for a late night dinner of pasta and such.  They also have to
borrow a sharp knife to finish off the guy in the trunk, but to his mom they
have to cut off the hoof of a dear that hit the car.  And the scene where
Tommy does kill the young kid for joking with him and then Paulie gets mad
at him, not for killing the guy but because he doesn't want to dig a hole
tonight.  There are so many tiny observations in Goodfellas that give it the
authenticity it has.  And it is a film that stays with you for years to
come.  I think this is Scorcese's best film and although I understand and
accept why the academy awarded Dances With Wolves the accolades it did, if
this film would have swept the Oscars that year, no one would have been
surprised.  It is a landmark film and I think it is one of the best films
ever made.  And again, taking no credit away from Coppolla's Godfather
epics, but this gets inside the mafia on a deeper level.  It goes one step
beyond what Coppolla gave us, and for that Goodfellas should be remembered
as the best film about gangsters ever made.
</p>