2002_January 30 

Starting with the 1950's, we follow Henry Hill from a teen who tries to
realise his dream of `always wanting to be a gangster'.  He goes from
running errands for Paulie Cicero to become a trusted man within his
organisation.  Working with James Conway and Tommy De Vito, Henry navigates
his violent lifestyle where death is never more than a few steps
away.<br /><br />For my generation this was one of our first introductions to Scorsese doing
a real tour-de-force of a film - I was too young to appreciate Raging Bull
and his 70's work when it first came out and the eighties were a quiet
period (except the brilliant king of comedy).  So here was a great
introduction to a fanatastic director.  The plot is spread over such a long
time (in terms of story years) that it's hard to get beneath the surface
events, but this is a very minor problem given that it's such a great ride. 
The focus is on events and the culture rather than a deep story and as such
Scorsese works with set pieces and events rather than too much
characterisation.  However the story moves so effectively through the action
- Scorsese uses long tracking shots, pumping soundtracks and scenes of
building tension and sudden violence to create a masterful
experience.<br /><br />The weakness with lack of depth is really put to the back of your mind by
the action, the direction and the performances.  The story is well held
together by Hill's narrative and the shallowness is easily over looked. 
Liotta is excellent as the aspiring gangster and is full of self seeking
menace.  De Niro does what he does best in terms of the Irish gangster role
but the standout is Pesci.  Pesci gives a strong role as the vicious Tommy
and deserved his Oscar.  The rest of the cast are all excellent whether it's
major roles (Paul Sorvino, Lorraine Bracco) or minor characters (Frank
Vincent, Sivero).<br /><br />The real star here is Scorsese - he uses the camera and the soundtrack to
great effect and gets great performances from his cast.  A modern gangster
feast.
