2005_May 31 
As far back as he could remember Henry Hill wanted to be a gangster. He
got his wish and in GoodFellas we get to go along for the exciting
ride. Before the opening titles have even concluded we get a clear
sense of the very dangerous yet oddly thrilling lives Henry and his
fellow gangsters lead. And the sense of excitement and wonder is
maintained right up until the bitter end.<br /><br />Ray Liotta is the nominal lead in his role as Henry from whose point of
view the story is told. While Liotta is fine in his role Joe Pesci as
Tommy DeVito and Robert De Niro as Jimmy Conway are even better. The
boundless energy and manic temper Pesci brings to Tommy are absolutely
perfect. Pesci's performance in the now-famous &quot;I'm funny how?&quot; scene
is acting at its best. De Niro's performance is more subtle but also
brilliant and his portrayal of Jimmy brings a sense of menace whenever
he appears. Even though he is for the most part restrained, you know he
is fully capable of exploding at any moment. Also giving fine
performances are Lorraine Bracco as Henry's wife, Karen, and Paul
Sorvino as the quiet, mysterious, yet undeniably powerful mob boss Paul
Cicero.<br /><br />GoodFellas depicts the rise and fall of Henry Hill in his life in the
mafia. We follow him from his beginnings as a simple Brooklyn youth
through dizzying highs and maddening lows. Henry is in effect telling
his own story here through Liotta's voice-over narration and this
device works well, filling in some blanks, helping to move the story
along and also giving some insight into the motivations which drive his
actions. We also get some insight from Karen's point of view as
sporadic Bracco narration sheds some light on how a simple, naive girl
gets swept up in the mob life.<br /><br />The unique Martin Scorsese touch also adds a great deal to the
experience. So many sequences are brilliantly conceived and perfectly
executed. None is more memorable than the truly brilliant tracking shot
where for over three unbroken minutes we follow Henry and Karen from
the street outside the Copacabana nightclub down through the bowels of
the club and right up to the front of the stage. Few directors would
even imagine such a sequence much less be able to pull it off so
wonderfully. Scorsese's use of music is also pitch-perfect as he seems
to always be able to find just the right song to perfectly frame each
moment. And as would be expected with Scorsese nothing is spared in
terms of violence or language. Henry Hill and those around him led
ruthless, violent, dangerous lives and Scorsese captures that
wonderfully. Proceeding at its own pace, GoodFellas allows you to
really get to know and appreciate these characters. Some might quibble
and say things move along too slowly, that the pace could be picked up.
But there is no denying that, overall, GoodFellas is absolutely
terrific.
