2007_August 5 
A gripping, shocking, at times shamefully hilarious, mob masterpiece,
with a soundtrack so brilliantly chosen, you&#39;d be forgiven for thinking
all the songs were written just for this movie. The lightning pace
never lets up as we follow the criminal career of the kid Henry Hill,
as he blossoms from a scrawny mob-gopher into a streetwise foot soldier
for the local Sicilian gangsters. It&#39;s a cautionary tale about the
excesses of the American dream. All the major characters hold the world
in their hands, but the inevitable backlash comes as the death toll
rises and the money-making schemes become more grandiose...add some
drugs, turf wars and extra-marital affairs into the mix..as well as the
plain psychotic artistry of the more uncompromising villains (Pesci at
his finest), and you&#39;ve got a frenzied free-for-all on the streets of
New York, as the gangster life tears up anyone and anything in its
path. It&#39;s a wild ride, even if it&#39;s apparent where we&#39;re heading.
Liotta adds a supremely good voice over which sets everything in
context and slips you right into his edgy world, where every day is a
constant hustle requiring wit, skill and courage. It&#39;s not a film for
the faint hearted. While we are seduced by the wild world of organised
crime, there are enough reality checks, in terms of the violence, to
put us at an appropriate distance from the corrupt, morally redundant
world that we are experiencing. Henry Hill is no Alex De Large, there&#39;s
little ambiguity involved. He chooses the life and he pays for it in
spades by the end. But the acting is so convincing, the story so well
paced and delivered, that we have no time to reconsider our initial
empathy for this bunch of villains. The cast is strong. Liotta performs
an acting miracle as he holds onto the reins, occasionally being
outshone by the electrifying Pesci, and the quietly malevolent De
Niro...but never letting go of the story as his character ploughs on to
the end. The supporting cast is brilliant So many memorable secondary
characters, from Karen Hill, Mob boss Paulie, Morrie the wig-shop owner
with grand ideas, henchman Carbone and many more. It&#39;s movie
perfection..the blend of storytelling savvy, pitch=perfect
performances, great music, elaborate camera-work and brilliant set
design..It captures an era convicingly, and with an objectivity that
really elevates it into a classic work of art.
