2011_December 12 
We are facing one of the best products of commercial cut film of all
time Hoolywood. Of all the aspects and details that can comment on this
great movie, I want to pass just three: <br /><br />1. The dance of the camera. The director deploys all his virtues
narratives. One of them is handling the camera. The camera dances to
the rhythm of the film. The camera will dance to the awesome
soundtrack. Tracking shots, close-ups very measured, interrupted
sequence shots. The camera follows Ray Liotta and Lorraine Bracco, who
enter a restaurant through the back door, walk through the halls to the
kitchen, dodging all the obstacles that occur (the transfer of the
cooks, the tables, the waiters and trays ) come into the room of the
restaurant, stopping to talk to a manager, the camera follows the table
wearing a waiter from the other tables, all occupied, Ray and Lorraine
go behind the camera and come back to sit at the at the table you just
placed in a privileged place.<br /><br />2. A superb casting. It should reward the casting of a more direct way.
This had been done with all the accolades in 1990. Robert De Niro seems
to carry stolen goods since childhood, Joe Pesci can not but be a jerk
so violent in real life, Ray Liotta plays the role of his career,
Lorraine Bracco always exciting to be grabs a gun beyond the screen,
Paul Sorvino makes the audience gasp with gestures only, the other side
seem taken the time and the environment they belong to the characters
they embody.<br /><br />3. The hands of Ray Liotta. It is inconceivable that Scorsese would not
have made emphasis on the interpretation hands in addressing the cast.
I imagine throughout the filming insisting on the importance of hand
movements to express the rhythm of life of these gangsters and
accompany and complement the rhythm of the work. All the actors are
terrific in their hand movements. But it focuses on all Ray Liotta.
Emulating De Niro putting money into the pockets of the shirts of all
restaurant workers, touching the face to express emotions, taking a
cigarette and put in their mouths, and, above all, amassing meatballs,
takes one to the other hand with the thought stuck in the helicopter
across the sky.
