2008_June 14 
Among other things, if this were to be for real, GOD HAVE MERCY ON US
ALL !! for we would truly be worthy of extinction and the only way for
mankind to realise just how fierce, evil and sadistic it has become
would be to have it taught a lesson far more cruel than what anyone of
us is capable of. this movie shows the evil nature the animal instinct
that lies within everyone of us just waiting for the right
&quot;opportunity&quot; to surface, at times hybernating at other times unleashed
and this movie proves the latter in a unique way that brings out the
darkness inside the human mind. how can adults take revenge on children
just because they were, shall we say, out of line ? no matter how bad
juveniles can be, nothing justifies what happens here...NOTHING ! think
about it...i don&#39;t know under what circumstances the parents of those
students were notified...maybe they were notified or maybe they were
&quot;notified&quot; but if they really were notified of what the sick meaning of
the BR Act was, what parent in his right mind would willingly accept to
have his child put to death in order to justify or willingly give into
some adult sick minds&#39; conception of the gravely misinterpreted and
mocked in this case, Darwinian theory of the strong shall survive ? If
this were to be for real, and thank God it isn&#39;t, but just supppose it
were, i would be ashamed to call myself not only a parent but an adult
as well. Darwin&#39;s theory is part of everyday life in one way or
another, but to adapt it to such an evil, grotesque way is just too
unnatural, too inhuman. even animals fight for survival but for a good
cause: they hunt for food unlike man who fights for supremacy,
territorial expansion, greed, or even sport. the feeling of greed and
evil is absent from animals but sadly not from man, which is a shame
because we can think and implicitly distinguish right from wrong far
better than animals can not just by making use of our nature-blessed
instincts but on a larger, more complex scale. it&#39;s a shame that we
have become what this movie is outlining.... savages...killing each
other for sport. you don&#39;t see animals screwing each other over for a
goddamn percentage, unlike us. the message of the movie is really sad,
and not only that but sounds the alarm on a possible future outbreak of
one of man&#39;s darkest, yet &quot;unexplored&quot; side. shame on us as a human
race for such atrocities now taken to the next level: willingly
accepting the demise of OUR OWN FLESH AND BLOOD on a yearly basis! (is
pretty obvious the parents of those students were notified, which makes
it even more outrageous)which no longer involves grown-ups but even
worst. As bad as it may seem on screen the movie is excellent and i
mean one of a kind in depicting a possible subliminal message to all
those who can &quot;dig&quot; it. The story is absolutely unique, original at its
very core, something Hollywood could never muster due to a number of
reasons some obvious some not. Highly recommended ! Also watch Battle
Royale 2 as well even though i don&#39;t recommend it and you will see why
in my comment regarding it! Peace and god helps us all !
