2006_August 28 
Battle Royale is in no way a subtle movie, in fact it&#39;s the opposite of
modest. Up and front here is the plot: a class of 42 students are put
on a remote island by their school teacher and the Japanese government
to fight to the death. Yeah yeah, it sounds a little lame and sort of
over the top but the movie conveys a deeper message then you may think.
As the movie progresses, more and more of the students resort to
murdering their best friends and classmates in order to survive for
themselves, and sometimes just out of pure violent rage. Battle Royale
illustrates the compelling nature of hate and violence that lives
inside of every human alive; the chilling rage that you and me both
possess. Not only that, but a political message is also present in a
vague sort of way; in the beginning scene of the movie you are shown a
crowd of reporters and people rushing to see the winner of the battle
Royal, all eager to see who survived the 3 day long bloodshed; i
thought that this showed the thirst for blood modern man has, the urge
to witness violence.<br /><br />The director did a great job at keeping the violence low key (there&#39;s
not a lot of major gore) but nonetheless capturing it in high
intensity; most of the deaths in the movie are very emotional and some
of them lightly disturbing. Although some people may laugh or dislike
the love stories that are sketched into the film, i thought they were
actually touching in a lame Japanese sort of way (no offense to anybody
that is Japanese, i simply meant that the vocabulary and choice of
words made by the characters are not all entirely American sounding.)
Another good aspect of the movie is that the acting is mostly genuine
in my opinion, and plus all or most of the actors were actually high
schoolers (give or take a couple of students and teachers/soldiers.) On
a final note, i urge anybody who is interested in this movie to just
WATCH IT and stop hating on it about it&#39;s plot, the plot is original, a
tad bit over the top (which in my opinion is interesting when it comes
to films), and influential. GO WATCH IT!
