2010_July 1 
A FEW years ago all we had to satisfy our titular comic book fantasies
on the big screen was a baby-faced Toby Maguire prancing around in a
red spandex suit. Now it would seem we are spoilt for choice as the age
of the comic book sets into full, unflinching flow. The latest panel to
film conversion is indie flick Kick Ass. This however, is a different
coloured set of spandex altogether. Rated with a 15 certificate, it&#x27;s
not one of the family friendly comic tales of which the world has
become accustomed to of late. Instead, it is a rough and tumble, action
packed adventure with copious helpings of in-your-face violence and
colourful profanities from unexpected mouths. Regular American high
school student and comic book fan Dave Lizewski lives a simple life
alone with his father. Personal trials, hardships and popularity aren&#x27;t
problems which really factor into Dave&#x27;s life, until one day he decides
to become a super hero - without powers or training. This simple
concept opens up a realm of possibilities which resonate on a more
personal level with an audience who live in the same universe, as
opposed to the eccentricities of the Marvel and DC worlds portrayed in
previous comic book adaptations. Because of this, the hilarity of the
situations Kick-Ass finds himself in are amplified tenfold; giving the
audience a more realistic, often painful, representation of what being
a real-life super hero would be like. It would seem Dave is not alone
in his quest either. He soon runs into crime-fighting duo Big Daddy and
Hit Girl, a father-daughter combo of devastating proportions. Veteran
Nicholas Cage gives a suitably high quality performance as the doting
Dad tutoring his lethal little girl, but the plaudits from most critics
have gone to 13-year-old Chloe Moretz, who was only 12 at the time of
filming. Her role and performance will inevitably be redolent of
previous young starlets like Jodie Foster in Taxi Driver and Natalie
Portman in Leon. All of Moretz&#x27;s co-stars and crew have heaped praise
on the youngster, with many confessing to being forced into raising
their game at the risk of being acted off screen by the pocket-sized
puncher. Samurai swords and ninja throwing stars are Hit Girl&#x27;s weapons
of choice, and she is a dab hand at using them. Slicing and dicing her
way through hoards of bad guys, Big Daddy&#x27;s daughter carries out her
job with an unflinching, hard-as-nails attitude. However, the small
hero is also where the film draws the bulk of its controversy. One
scene in particular sees Hit Girl beckoning more baddies on by calling
them a four letter profanity currently considered one of the language&#x27;s
worst. Those who stir the controversy though are, for the most
part,those who have not seen the film but only heard about this
on-paper noteworthy situation. Those who then see Kick-Ass though, will
probably employ hindsight as they realise the subtle yet evident
portent of emotional hardship Hit Girl has had to endure as she grew up
with her father in prison. As such, the language she uses is not for
the shock effect on its audience, but more a faithful reprise of the
comic book character&#x27;s melancholic upbringing. Moving away from the
controversy, a potential sidekick of questionable morals in the form of
Superbad&#x27;s Christopher Mintz-Plasse arrives to help Kick-Ass in his
quest. Red Mist is the on screen son of super (yet still normal)
villain Frank D&#x27;Amico, played by the ever despicable Mark Strong. The
rich kid son, desperate to please his father, goes undercover to
infiltrate Kick-Ass&#x27; superhero circle and provides some classic
hilarity as he finds out that being a scrawny comic book nerd is not
the best qualification for becoming a superhero. The film&#x27;s grounded
reality is its most empirical feature. At first glance, Kick-Ass&#x27;
costume looks like a wet-suit you could pick up on ebay with a few
extra pads stuck on. At second glance it turns out that that&#x27;s exactly
what it is. His first attempt at super heroism consequently ends up
getting him hospitalised and throughout the film he keeps his homely
characteristics that make him a normal teenage boy, all the while
developing the courage and bravery of a true superhero. Grittily
realistic is an adjective too far though. The film strikes a perfect
balance between apathetic realism and over-the-top, completely un-PC
action. Seeing Big Daddy teach Hit Girl how to &#x27;take a bullet&#x27; by
shooting her with a machine gun while she has a bullet-proof vest on is
something that, for all the world an audience feels it should be
shocked and appalled at, but the conviction and temerity of the
characters make it utterly hilarious. The story plays on an interesting
concept which the majority of its audience will find easy to relate to:
The overwhelming desire to become a super hero in real life. The fact
that the movie was commissioned before the third edition of the comic
was even published and its first story arc completed speaks volume&#x27;s
about Kick Ass&#x27; potential as a low budget blockbuster destined for
infinite critical acclaim. Perhaps the film is not one for the more
conservative viewers who like their super heroes well-spoken and
family-friendly (Aside from French audiences, who can see the same
Kick-Ass at their local cinemas with a PG certificate), but it remains
an absolute must for anyone outside of that classification. Spider Man
and Batman are everything a super hero movie should be, and this movie
is absolutely nothing like them, which is its crowning achievement. In
Kick-Ass, writer Mark Millar has managed to create a viable alternative
to the super hero norm which matches the quality of those clad in tight
costumes who have come before it in a completely different, radical
way. Just don&#x27;t go getting any ideas...
