2010_October 2 
To be honest, at first I hated this film b4 I saw it. How did some
super hero flick just released make it into the Top 250 here with some
bratty pre-teen murderous girl as the breakout star. It seemed so
contrived. But the best part of it is that it is a layered film. We
have some nerdy teen and friends in a semi rough high school and their
travails. A raft of brutal street thugs who are reality based and not
too over the top. Then you have two almost super heroes, a discredited
cop and his daughter, the Macreadys Big Daddy &#x26; Hit Girl who are
totally over the top in their single minded desire to rid the world of
Frank D&#x27;Amico and his equally over the top violent mobsters who ruined
Macready;s career by getting him framed. With Nick Cage as Big Daddy, a
Batman knockoff, be prepared for his trademark role immersion, except
this Batman uses guns and likes to kill and trained his 11 year old
daughter into a whirling dervish of death, Hit Girl, in a plaid skirt,
foul mouth and purple wig. Then throw in the mobster&#x27;s son, a would be
faux super hero, Red Mist, and you have one heck of a movie.<br /><br />There is the awkward teen coming of age aspect as Dave goes would be
superhero to compensate for his drab, colorless existence in a trio of
comic book fan outcasts. His first attempt at superherodom resulted in
getting quite the beating then getting run down accidentally which
required extensive orthopedic rebuild ala 6 Million Dollar Man. No one
was on to him but now a rumor circulated that he was a fruit, which
ironically got the attention of the beautiful girl who ignored him and
who was a would be fag hag. His next attempt was a bit more successful
and got him publicity as he beat off three hoods bent on stomping
another one. That got a lot of attention by the media through a You
Tube video.<br /><br />But it started to get dicey when he tried to help his doting fag hag
teen beauty Katie Deauxma, who was being harassed by some scumbag
street level dealer she met when she volunteered at the drug needle
exchange clinic. She doted on that scum who used and abused her so Dave
told her to write to Kick Ass&#x27;s Facebook page for some help. He gets
the balls to go into the scum Rasul&#x27;s apartment full of lowlifes to
deliver a message and he almost gets his ass kicked when Hit Girl and
Big Daddy arrived to do in the whole lot of them, take their money and
save Kick Ass&#x27;s skin too. The father daughter duo take a liking to him
but advised him to stay out of the action. Then it got even more deeper
and over the top culminating in a sky scraper storming scene that made
the Boondock Saints version look like the lame crap that it was. So you
had three layers, the teen coming of age, finding himself and getting
laid, some run ins with brutal local lowlifes, then even more violent
and brutal mobsters up to the totally over the top Hit Girl, Big Daddy
duo leading to the grand finale.
