2010_October 26 
bought this movie at the video store and finally sat down to watching
it one evening and was pleasantly surprised by how much i enjoyed this
film. i usually have reservations about graphic novels being adapted
for the big-screen but after seeing the trailer several times, decided
to give it a go. while the trailer looks like a movie for kids, it is
definitely not for kids due to the excessive amount of violence and
coarse language spoken by the young adult stars. i do agree with one
reviewer who said that the actress who plays the role of hit-girl
steals almost every scene she is in. this is evident when she appears
on screen during the apartment massacre and saves kick ass&#x27;s life by
single-handedly wiping out all the villains with her kung-fu style
moves and and expert weaponry skills. a very cool scene with great
background music to match. while nicholas cage didn&#x27;t have a major role
in the film i still liked his character &#x27;big daddy&#x27;. you really get to
see how he got into the business of becoming a superhero and vigilante
of sorts through a comic book he created and how got his daughter
involved. i loved his costume which greatly resembled batman&#x27;s. i
didn&#x27;t get too into the character of kick ass who i thought was a
wannabe superhero and hanger on. he didn&#x27;t possess any physical
abilities or hand to hand combat skills which is evident as he tries to
fight off goons and thugs who cross his path. he doesn&#x27;t have any
specially made weapons or gadgets except for his two batons that he
uses to beat up on criminals. his character was wimpy and kind of
pathetic at times that i found it hard to sympathize with him. red mist
was just okay as he was never a superhero but used as bait to lure
kick-ass to the secret lair of hit-girl and big daddy and expose them
as the real culprits behind all the slayings of the drug-lords in town.
he had a pretty cool costume and drove a car that reminded me of the
bat mobile. over-all i enjoyed the many action/fightings sequences
which were excellently done. some witty and sharp dialogue and solid
script. recommended to anyone looking for a good time and fun ride.
