2010_March 24 
It is clear that Mathew Vaughn is one of the most promising British
directors at present. His debut, Layer Cake, showed the glossy veneer
and seedy underbelly of London with a stylised high sheen look and
showed flourishes of brilliance - the opening sequence reminiscent of
Fincher and the action never replacing the narrative. Stardust showed
that he could create an alternative reality that was believable
considering its meagre budget. With Kick Ass, the action is rooted in
reality. Posing the question &#x22;why does nobody become a superhero?&#x22; it
follows a slightly different narrative than the comic book as its
protagonist, Dave Lizewski (Aaron Johnson), considers the point with
his friends and finally becomes one himself - Kick Ass. Foremost,
Vaughn handles the action sequences with great competance: the
shoot-outs are at times pure Hong-Kong action, other times truly
original and the rescue scene is breathtakingly beautiful in its
composition. We believe that a twelve year old Hit Girl could do all
these things and you wince when the punches, blades and other assorted
weapons are thrown. The action is also punctuated with dark and bloody
humour throughout, you don&#x27;t tire of seeing Kick Ass getting his ass
kicked or Hit Girl impaling villains and uttering some truly blue
language - much will be said of both, but this is a comic book film...
fictional reality mean anything to Daily Mail readers? The casting of
all characters is spot on, as a lover of the comic I was impressed at
how they had translated the characters and their drama to the big
screen. It is also worth noting that none of the sharp dialogue and
spot on representation of teens is lost from the comics, they are
believable teenagers that also look the age they are playing. However,
Vaughn seems unsure as how to structure the film; one minute the death
of a main character and the next, more laughs as Hit Girl swears and
punches some more. The whole film seems disjointed, like reading a
comic issue by issue and not as a book. One scene doesn&#x27;t always appear
to fit the next as if part of the previous scene was missing. Don&#x27;t get
me wrong, I thought the film was excellent but not perfect as I had
expected from the hype surrounding it.
