2010_August 17 
Kick-ass is one of those movies that has its tongue so firmly panted in
cheek because of the years of video archives where superheroes were
altruistic. Also, because of this fact, they are able to find the
perfect cast to pull it off. The characters are interesting while also
being somewhat stock. The nerd becomes superhero, the crime boss bad
guy with lots of guns. His underwhelming son who wants more. The mentor
hell bent on revenge and the prot&#xE9;g&#xE9; turned into the perfect weapon who
never has questions because she finds herself protected from them by
love. Its not the situations or the characters that mainly draw us in.
Its the little nuances that they have managed to fit into the story
without making it seem weighed down or unfocused. At one point kick-ass
is using some heavy machinery and you ask why at first, but then u
realize that its not a bad fit. Its just a fit. Everything seems to fit
in the film. In one case you have the high school life, but then you
have a very real life outside of the school. This is where kick-ass
ventures into often with hilarious results and sometimes very real and
intense results. When he is looking for the cat, priceless! And when he
fights its comical but also seems very brave of him. He upholds the
altruism of the classic superhero but he doesn&#x27;t have the talent to
beat his enemies if they decide not to listen. U never really feel
sorry for him tho because he does tend to be somewhat lucky getting
caught in the middle of a war between an entire crime syndicate and a
father and daughter with lethal accuracy. If he has any powers
whatsoever the power of being lucky would be it. The thing about this
movie is after watching it I feel very entertained and not patronized.
The movie just told itself. It didn&#x27;t try to find solace in things. It
didn&#x27;t try to make u feel good. There&#x27;s no way you can be 100 %
comfortable with an 11 year old girl going through what she goes
through in the story. And cage&#x27;s character was very damaged. Its pretty
clear what his intentions are and they sure are not altruistic. It was
executed pretty much perfectly. Its larger than life but remains
grounded. The crime syndicate doesn&#x27;t overstep its dramatic bounds. Its
the right amount of ineptitude and ruthlessness that makes them so
real. Then we have a little girl killing them with great ease. One
might say that takes away from the realness. But thats not true. Its
believable that she can do such things. What they have accomplished is
fleshing out a fantasy in a very mundane and dangerous world. The hero
gets hurt, a lot, in this world, but thats what makes him so
interesting, its what makes them all so interesting, that they are weak
and they pretend to be strong. Most comic book heroes are strong but
pretend to be weak. A hero without any threats is boring. If superman
had no kryptonite there would nothing to stop him from boring the crap
out of us. The more weaknesses the more interesting. Kick-ass may be
the most interesting man in the world in that case. I had to give an 8.
It was good and thought provoking, but it didn&#x27;t blow me away.
