2010_July 15 
Kick-Ass is one the best cinematic experiences I will never forget.
Period... Now onto the review!<br /><br />The story of Kick-Ass is quite simple yet extremely original that makes
for a fantastic movie going experience. The film takes the concept of a
Bruce Wayne, or a Tony Stark esquire concept and projects it in a
literal form. It asks the question: what would happen if an average
Joe...or teenager in this case would pose as a masked vigilante and
decide to fight crime? The main character in this film, High School
comic book geek Dave, played by the wonderful Aaron Johnson, decides to
put this question to the test and decides to pose as Kick-Ass. His
motive for this task as I said before is to answer the inevitable
question and decides to stand up to crime when other people don&#x27;t. When
taking on the responsibility of Kick-Ass he finally gets a chance to
fight crime against three hoodlums. When fighting them a crowd is
gathered around a fight filming Kick Ass with their camera phones,
Youtube Gear what have you. This video of Kick Ass fighting crime
causes a Youtube sensation and gains much popularity. Little dos Kick
Ass know though, that he has just entered a realm of other masked
vigilantes. These other crime fighters are Big Daddy played in prime
form by Mr. Nick Cage. And Big Daddy&#x27;s daughter Hit Girl, which is a
surreal performance by the new young comer Chloe Moretz. These two
vigilantes have a mission themselves to stop a local Drug Lord in town
played by Mark Strong(whom by the way is the main villain) who Bigg
Daddy has personal beef with. Something i wont spoil. Oh and how could
I forget the hilarious Red Mist played by the charming Mclov&#x27;n himself,
Chris Mintz Plasse. All these characters and stories tie in a very
clever manner that is blast to sit through.<br /><br />So what do you get with Kick-Ass? A movie that in my opinion is one of
the only movies I have ever seen to coming close to perfection. Call my
boasting propaganda but I seriously have no complaints here. This film
has essentially everything that makes a film enjoyable; great
directing, great writing, great acting, and memorable characters. Sure
the story has no real deep intellectual moral behind it aside from
telling to stand for others when others don&#x27;t, but it&#x27;s how this story
is told about a few characters whom we come to love and care about. We
care about their actions and we feel connected to them. Vaughn has
somehow grounded this film in reality yet takes us on a journey larger
than life. And succeeds in doing so. So in summary what is Kick-Ass? It
is simply put the best super-hero movie ever made if not one of the
best movies ever made in general. Period.
