2005_May 2 
When he first ran onto a music hall stage to replace his faltering
mother, Charles Chaplin was a natural entertainer who seemed to be able
to captivate the audience. With his mother's failing health, he is
forced to put her in a home and sets out on tour in America.
Discovering moving pictures for the first time, Chaplin jumps at the
chance to work in them himself. Quickly he has made his name and, with
his brother as manager, gets more power and more money. However like
Biggie said, more money brings more problems and Chaplin's life
off-screen is not as amusing as it is on.<br /><br />Biopics are difficult to get right and Chaplin is an example of one
that somehow fails to have that hook necessary to really make for a
great film rather than just a recounting of the past. By taking a
sweeping view over his whole life the film does the latter pretty well
but causes the weaknesses that stop it hitting the former as well as it
needed to. This means it is still an interesting film to watch but yet
somehow the characters are not totally there and the emotional
involvement is strangely lacking. Although the film details the rather
seedier side of Chaplin's relationships (the fact they are often
underage) it never does it in a judgemental way and it gives him a
rather easy ride &#150; although perhaps the film was just conveying
Hollywood's acceptance of such tastes (hence Polanski is still given
awards even though he cannot come onto American soil) but I would have
liked a bit more of questioning of him than just mentioning it. This is
really what is missing &#150; emotion. The old chestnut of flashbacks from
an old man works to produce a story but doesn't help make a person; I
was happy with the rough facts and the historical context it gives to
some of Chaplin's films but I never felt much about him as a person.<br /><br />Part of the problem with this is Downey Jnr himself. Although he gets
the mannerisms and looks pretty well, he fails to capture the sadness
behind the comedy &#150; sure he acts out the drama but it fails to really
flow through him in the way that it would come through the man himself
in his films. That said, it is still a good performance and this
failing is not his problem. The support cast are all OK but again none
really produce character depth and people, merely delivering actions.
However it is still hard to ignore a cast that includes Aykroyd, Thaw,
Tomei, Miller, Jovovich, Lane and Hopkins.<br /><br />Overall this is an interesting film but one that fails to really engage
on an emotional level. The facts are all laid out in such a way that I
felt I learnt from it but I didn't think it actually got to the heart
of the man. At times this works but at other times the lack of heart
makes the subject feel distant and quite plodding. Worth seeing if you
have an interest in Chaplin but if you already know the facts or just
don't care about him then it is unlikely you'll get much from this.
