2002_September 1 
This is the first talkie version of the oft-filmed R.L. Stevenson tale,
and still quite watchable seven decades later. Rouben Mamoulien
directed this one, and it is really more of a literary adaptation that
happens to have &quot;horror&quot; elements than a true horror film. Fredric
March as Jekyll/Hyde leads a first-rate cast that includes Miriam
Hopkins, Rose Hobart, Edgar Norton and Holmes Herbert. As the bland,
moralistic Dr. Jekyll, March is no more than adequate, but as the evil,
scheming Hyde, he is triumphant. The first transformation scene is
still a shocker, as Karl Struss whirls his camera around the
laboratory, finally stopping with Jekyll staring into the mirror, as
his features change literally before our eyes. Handsome Fredric March
was clearly was having a field day playing the crude, ugly monster that
Jekyll had turned himself into, as he leaps and frolics, dashes down
alleys, tortures a beautiful &quot;entertainer&quot; (read: prostitute), doing
all the things the kind doctor would like to do but is too fearful to
admit, even to himself, that he desires.<br /><br />As a moral tale, which to a large extent Jekyll and Hyde is, this must
seem quaint to Gen-X'ers and modern audiences in general. The notion of
the separability of good and evil, and the extremes of inhibition that
Victorian folk would go to in order to maintain their &quot;respectability&quot;,
have by and larger passed into history. Most people nowadays admit that
they're a mess, or are the very least that they're flawed, prey to
strange impulses, and at times a little mad. Though most of us wouldn't
care to say such things in public, this appears to be understood, which
is perhaps why Bill Clinton was not tarred and feathered after his
confession of having lied about having sex with &quot;that woman&quot;. People
understand. They don't come out and say so, but they do. (Whether this
is a good or bad thing I'll leave to the moralists and Bill Bennetts
among us.) Such was not the case in the nineteenth century, when
Stevenson wrote this story; and not so in 1931, when this version of it
was filmed. A good deal had to be implied.<br /><br />Even so, this was a pretty racy film for 1931. For a major production,
it is surprisingly small-scale. Hans Dreier's sets, excellent though
they are, seem at times almost too cramped for the movie. The cast is
uniformly excellent, especially Edgar Norton as Poole, the butler.
Miriam Hopkins is perfect as the pathetic Ivy. Her cockney accent is
variable, but you get the general idea. I especially like Holmes
Herbert as Lanyon, whose quiet, authoritative presence nicely suggests
that perhaps he has demons, too, and that where he differs from his
friend Jekyll is that he has learned to live with them.
