2005_March 29 
David Fincher the guy behind Se7en and Panic Room directed this gem.
The lead roles? Edward Norton and Brad Pitt(Pitt also starred in
Se7en). Helena Bonham Carter is the lead girl, but unlike any vampy,
wimpy, whiney, stupid or happy-go-lucky lead girl in the history of
movies. Pro wrestler Meat Loaf and angel-faced Jared Leto score two
small roles but not easily forgotten ones, either. The story starts of
pretty simple: average mediocre guy (Norton) who works at a car company
has insomnia/narcolepsia. He hasn't slept appropriately for half a
year. Finally he finds his cure, it turns out that by sneaking into
support groups for testicular cancer, blood parasites, etc, he can let
go and cry till he's out of tears, thus stopping the insomnia.
Everything's fine until diva-looking, depressed city woman Marla Singer
(Bonham Carter) starts showing up at the meetings (even the ones for
testicular cancer) for not much of a reason (&quot;Cheaper than the movies
and there's free coffee&quot;), which disrupts the Narrator's pattern of
breaking down and crying full out. So once again, he cannot go back to
sleep at night. This soon works out, but not far after the Narrtor
receives Singer's card, he encounters an interesting stranger, named
Tyler Durden (Brad Pitt), a guy who spends his life drifting around;
making soap from human fat and selling it back to the people who once
owned it; and splicing porno pictures into children's movies at the
theaters. When the Narrator's apartment is mysteriously blown up from a
gas leak, he moves in with Tyler Durden in his toxic waste part of
town, and they soon start a club for fighting: Fight Club, where any
man can finally stop repressing all their aggression for work, boss,
wife, kids, and life in itself. But as it goes on and Tyler meets the
now more-depressed-than-ever Marla Singer, everything slowly and subtly
starts spiraling down into a dark well of violence and insanity. In
spite of what its title might suggest, this movie is so much more than
the horrendously violent, blood-splattered Fight Club. it is a travel
into the mind of the nobody, the average guy, and what happens when he
can finally live out his feelings. It is a dark, yet often comedic
story, with the swift, darkly humorous Edward Norton narrating the
greater parts of the movie. It is AMAZINGLY well acted, especially for
not-very-known-for-their-performances kind of people like Norton, Pitt
and Carter. The music is fitting and adds a lot to the movie.
Lightning, pacing, story-telling, it's all there and it could not have
been better. State-of-the-art computer animation gives us neat camera
zooms in and out of garbage cans, bomb contraptions, and at the very
beginning an outstanding roller-coaster ride backwards through the very
inside of the Narrator's body, comped by cool music from The Dust
Brothers. It is worth seeing only for its beginning, plot twist and
ending(comped by The Pixies: &quot;Where is my Mind&quot;) alone, but the story,
the fighting, crimes, narration, acting, darkness, cleverness, the
genius of it all make it a masterpiece well-deserved of its 34th place
of IMDb's best movies of all time. There is simply hardly anything to
dislike in movies like this one. Watch it on your own or with friends,
it doesn't matter. I wouldn't recommend it for people who are sensitive
of strong violence, though. And by that I mean realistic, wince-making,
blood-splattered violence, not the kind you often get to see in
Hollywood blockbusters, where the heroes can take a thousand hits.<br /><br />10/10 stars! Watch it as soon as you can!
