2004_May 20 

Well what can I say? This film is amazing. It has everything that an
MTV generation boy or girl could want, all neatly packaged in this gem
of a movie. I must say the book was amazing, I loved it, it really gave
some fresh ideas to life, and why we act the way we act. But i feel the
movie is a better medium in which to show this to mass audience. First
things first, every actor in this film is marvellous, a joy to watch.
Edward Norton is God, when it comes to really nailing a character and
slipping into a role, he is close to DeNiro. Helena Bonham Carter, Meat
Loaf and Jared Leto all are a pleasure to watch. But I must say this
film is about one man, Tyler Durden... ladies and gentlemen... Brad
Pitt rocked in this. I could never possibly imagine anybody else in
this role, he magnificently slips into a potentially hypocritical role,
looking good and acting the part, my hats off. What makes this film so
great, naturally the twist is always important and a real brain teaser,
is just how glorious it is after you realize the truth. On second
viewing you pick up more details, the tiniest of things that just make
the film worth watching over and over again. But most important is its
visual flare. It is as if we are in the mind of Jack [or the narrator -
take your pick] The constant jumping back, going forward, skipping to
and throw, picking up were he left off, it represents beautifully what
a modern mans life is like, full of constant hectic day to day
monotomous work routines, all becoming slaves to the fashion and food
industry, as if image were really the most important aspect in life.
This is a rant on capitalism, and all the better for it, me and my
friends enjoy it particularly for that reason, because it laughs in the
face of democracy, not in an attempt to [as some American critics
failed to understand] promote Fascism as an idealised movement, but
just to stand there and say &quot;Hey this is what's wrong, I don't like
this and that, F**k you and your rules, lets do something worth living
about.&quot; It really tunes into modern perceptions of life: Work, Sex,
Fashion, Religion and Security... and just really mixes them around. I
came out of the cinema bedazzled by the whole look of the film, but
watch it again and enjoy it for what it really has to offer...
everything.

