2005_July 29 
Every once in a while, the giant Hollywood production companies manage
to produce something beyond a box office , money making, trend setting
and &quot;watch me everybody&quot; movie - they produce a piece of art. And if
this piece of art can speak to people openly, if it can make them think
freely and create a emotional turn-on every single time their senses
unite with it, it becomes a Cult. How else can you describe Fight Club
but a cult movie? I got one - a cry for revolution movie. It goes in
open war with everything we accept for a material reality. It FIGHTS
the big lie of the modern society that is all around us. It hates every
single cell of the organism of todays life - even itself ( a hit motion
picture). Yeah, my friends, prepare for the fight, it is about to
begin.How do you start a revolution? You begin with yourself - you must
free yourself first. You must lose the chains and get back to the
origin , to your nature. Then you find out that other people feel
exactly the same. Their energy is also spent on things that are not
important, day after day. They too , deep inside, have the urge to
FIGHT. They , however , do not know how to define this instinct , the
burning sensation in every single molecule of their bodies. You teach
them, help them to break free and then lead them. Where? To anarchy?
No. To God. To the place they want to be. To the higher source of
energy that the human being can become one with. Forget about
everything you now think is a priority. It is not. Come on , it is not
that hard. Just close your eyes. Do you feel angry? Think you are
waisting your life , and I mean every second of it? Something tells you
that this can be it, I can spend the rest of my life like this? I know
you do. One of the greatest powers of the man is the ability to make a
choice. Make yours. This movie does not suggest you should go out and
fight other people, you know that. It suggest you to FIGHT, and fight
your way. Wake up, go out and fight. Join the revolution. Open your
mind and think. After all , it is your life. Start living it. Your way.
