2000_June 20 

First don't be fooled by the title which limited its widespread appeal
to
a truer audience, its merely used as a backdrop. Second don't be persuaded
by previous ignorant comments that state this movie has no basis or
message
to deliver. Fight club is ingenious in delivery and concept leading you on
a
bizarre and twisted psychological journey. It is wonderfully crafted,
maybe
to much so for the average dullard viewer and reminds me in nature of
another great flick THX-1138.
It follows a man entrapped by materialistic desires suffering from
insomnia despising what his life has become. He can only find comfort and
sleep in the connection of those less fortunate then himself in self-help
groups to ease his burdens. Until he meets her. He soon discovers feelings
for a woman and sorrow in the death of a friend which previous eluded him
being blinded by his materialistic greed. His journey takes him through a
dark thou enlightning journey or transformation.<br /><br />The presentation along with the twisted turn of events at the end make
this movie much deeper then originally given credit for. Bradd Pitt and
Edward Norton deliver nothing less then spectacular acting creating
characters as equally dark and disturbing as your worst nightmare. This is
one movie that gets better with every viewing and more easily understood.
I
watched in 5x in one weekend and became more and more engrossed with every
viewing. Director David Fincher, director of seven, and the game has
outdone
himself with this one delivering a fantastic outing with intriguing
concepts
such as the use of subliminal pictures used in the movie and used as a
small
role in the movie. There are several, most notable comes at the very
end.<br /><br />As Tyler sez,&quot;how much can you truly know about yourself if you've
never
been in a fight.&quot; You'll be amazed at the small things that make this
movie
a cutting edge masterpiece of inquisitive nature. Break the rules and tell
everyone about Fight Club.
