1999_December 30 

Do people actually read these comments anyway?  Well, yeah, it seems that
most people enjoyed Fight Club.  Oddly I wonder if the majority of the
public actually understood the theme of the movie, or maybe the American
public simply enjoyed the &quot;satire&quot; or happy go lucky violence.  I give
Fincher credit for having massive picture effects and for creating this
masterpiece of fascist and male chauvinistic propoganda.<br /><br />Fight Club started out great.  The first 30 minutes were billiant.  Then
where did they go wrong?  The movie was inconsistent between two parallels:
State of Nature (State of War, a.k.a. anarchy, chaos, basically the
opposite
of society) and conformity.  It seemed like Fincher wanted to direct a
movie
about everything flawed in our society today, hitting subjects like
individuality, equality, pragmatism (reality), etc.  but it was
so...uniform
and aimed at the general public that it fails to show WHY we are not our
khakis.  And oh dear god, what screams establishment more than popular
culture references?  So it constantly contradicts itself.  No...it doesn't,
oh yeah it does, we aren't our khakis and pain is reality.  Blah blah blah.<br /><br />Another thing, the whole theme of the movie is that our realities are so
contorted by materialism that even pleasure isn't &quot;real&quot; anymore and that
the only thing that's &quot;real&quot; and can save us is pain, i.e. getting punched
in the face.  Yet this theme wasn't really executed in the movie.  It
seemed
more like 2 hours of sweaty men punching each other out!  I consider myself
extremely liberal but I realize the needs of conformity in a society!
Without uniformity to some degree, I assure you, 99.9% of our civilization
would be lost.  Let's just throw away 5000 years of evolution and let
natural selection kill everyone off except for people who're like Brad
Pitt.
Maybe I'm over analyzing, maybe I'm just too old-fashioned for all the
new,
hip anarchist-capitolists, but in my opinion, if people want exhilarating
violence and male chauvinism (Fight Club failed to show the role of women
in
the cool new facist-anarchist empire we have a duty to create!)  they
should
go see the new James Bond movie or something, which was exactly what Fight
Club is, minus the quasi-political subliminal messages:  ALL
FLUFF!
