2005_September 24 
Fight club is an film about abstract concepts and a radical new way to
deal with the problems in your life. You take from this film what you
want and what you can piece together from it. This film is highly
interpretive, in my opinion, and can be taken in many different ways.
Some may see it as just glorified violence. Some may see it as just
another guy flick. Some may view it on a deeper level, and take as much
from it as they can. Personally, this film is an evolved, yet primitive
way of thinking that is applicable on many levels to the way we live
our lives. It's not necessarily beating the crap out of one another for
the sheer gore of it. When I look into magazines and see the &quot;perfect&quot;
man or woman, or see what one is supposed to look like, I am reminded
that that is not a real person. In a sense, it sorta makes those of us
without the action figure bodies or the ken doll faces feel a little
bastardized. I suppose a more simplified theme of the story would be
that there are many things in this life, a lot of bullshit, that
frustrates you, puts you down, has you struggling for fading, worldly
possessions and grasping for an image that only exists in magazines and
on television. Sometimes it may feel that controlled sparring/fighting
is a way to separate oneself from those things. Again, it is a primal
instinct, and not all may agree with it, and it is not expected to be
so. It is, however, one of the ways that those of us who feel alienated
from the garbage tossed at us, relieve stress from all that that is
dangled in our faces but which we cannot attain. In conclusion, this
film is a potentially life changing look at learning how to let go of
the tie downs that are fed to us everyday, and the bullshit we deal
with on a daily basis. Many may not agree with this perspective, and
that's fine, but it's just a different take on what I find to be a very
important film that is highly pertinent to our generation and for
generations to come. Feel free to leave any intelligent, well-thought
out feed back should you so desire.
