2002_September 21 

&lt;&lt;So what? Are we supposed to sympathise with Norton because of this?
I'm sorry but I have sympathy in films with people dying, or who's family
have been killed. John Hurt triumphing over cancer in Champions, Tom Hanks
in Saving Private Ryan, thousands of others. Even Norton himself actually in
the brilliant American History X. In the 2nd half, I sympathise with him for
the life he has found himself with.&gt;&gt;<br /><br />Film is an artform, which means it's not about one thing-it's not about two
things, or three, or four-it's a spectrum.  Yes, I was drawn to Spacey's
character in American Beauty, and I was drawn to Norton's character in Fight
Club.  These characters don't only represent themselves but others like them
that many don't want to admit even exist.  I'm disgusted by obsessive
capitalism and consumerism and how horribly the working-class are treated
(regardless of how workers were treated in the past-it still doesn't excuse
how companies make them out to be corporate robots whose lives include their
job and their job only).  Filmmaking can be about one person (Amelie), it
can be about two people (In the Bedroom), it can be about 3, 4, 5......or
hundreds, thousands, millions.  The point isn't how much it covers but how
it covers it.  I felt for Hanks' character in Saving Private Ryan too.  But
I don't limit myself to just characters whose families have been killed, or
who have experienced death.  That's just narrow-minded.  Furthermore, you've
reduced film to a medium that forces you to empathize with characters. 
That's not what film is.  Certainly you have to be able to identify with
them on some level, but empathy is NOT a requirement.  Look at A Clockwork
Orange, where all we're given is a murderous, egotistical (but still witty
and interesting) rapist...I personally cannot EMPATHIZE with him on many
levels, but the film is successful because we are forced to identify with
him-he becomes our hero, of sorts.  And yes, at times, we may feel some
sorrow for his conditions, but his overall character is nothing to pity. 
You have to understand the extreme artform that cinema is and that you
cannot, cannot, CANNOT watch it in a vaccuum-you CANNOT reduce it to certain
levels when film can be multi-level.  Film is many things, but it's not just
about death or pain that characters experience.  Please come to understand
that.  If you personally don't like Norton's character, that's fine...but to
say that Tom Hanks' character in Saving Private Ryan (wonderful film, by the
way) is more realistic than Norton's in Fight Club is just a joke.  I guess
my question to you would be-what do you think film IS?
