2006_February 5 
Overall Fight Club is a good movie and is certainly worth watching but
I'm not buying into all the &quot;best film ever&quot; bullcrap. Hearing that is
really annoying to me in fact and part of the reason why I'm writing
this right now. Let me start off by saying, I get the film. I'm sick of
hearing people tell me that I don't get the movie. That really annoys
me. The movie is what it is and I'm pretty sure most of the retards
that spend all their time of Fight Club message boards saying &quot;I am
Jack's (insert retarded something or other here)&quot; are looking too much
into the film. Fincher is pretty good as the film's director, but the
direction gets annoying to me after a while because I just keep feeling
that he's pretty sure he's a bad@ss which isn't true. Se7en's good,
definitely better than Fight Club and mostly it's because of how
Fincher keeps his style at a minimum whereas in Fight Club he goes
crazy, this too annoys me. Edward Norton and Brad Pitt are good in
their roles, Norton has been better though (Primal Fear) and Brad Pitt
is not the person I want to learn a life lesson from but he's alright
and he makes me laugh every now and then so he's OK. I do however have
certain problems what this movie is trying to preach which people then
take seriously and follow, mostly that it's anti-corporations and stuff
but the film itself has countless actual logo's for major corporations
within it. You think that Fincher was just being clever by putting
those in the film? I don't, he's a sell out just like the people
they're fighting against in the film. Also, while they're on the bus
looking at the underwear ad and Brad Pitt says, &quot;Self-improvement is
masturbation.&quot; I almost cracked up, he couldn't say anything more
absurd considering how he himself looks. Anyway, these are just a few
of my gripes but whatever. It's a pretty good movie just don't buy into
all these morons and their view of Fincher as Jesus' Second Coming and
Fight Club as perfect, that's just dumb and it annoys me.
