1999_December 22 

Fight Club really surprised me.  It was written great, acted great and
directed great.  My friends told that this movie was great but I
definitely
didn't expect what I saw.  FIGHT CLUB IS WITHOUT A DOUBT THE MOST ORIGINAL
MOVIE I HAVE EVER SEEN.  While I was whatching Fight Club I forgot it was
just a movie.  It grabbed hold of me and didn't let go till it was over.
After the movie was over I sat at my seat for thirty minutes thinking
about
what it all meant (the movie has many deep underlying points but, you do
not
get a chance to think about them till after the movie is over).  I won't
tell you my conclusions about the the overall point of the movie (partly
because I haven't completly decided on them yet).  This movie is not just
about a club for fighting as I originally thought, it is a gripping, deep
drama about the disillusionment of generation X.
It was acted out wonderfully by Edward Norton (the narrator).  I
believe and sincerely hope he gets an Oscar for his performance.  Brad
Pitt
also did an excellent job pulling off the part of Tyler Durden.  I loved
him
in this role (and i dont even like Brad Pitt).  I feel his performance in
fight club is his best performance ever!!  Helena Bonham Carter did a role
unlike any she has ever done before (she plays a likeable slutty druggy)
and
she pulls it off great!!  David Fincher has made a masterpiece.  Fight
Club
is by far his best movie by far.  The way he directed this movie and the
camera shots he got alone make this movie worth watching but, the acting
and
story make it the best movie I have ever seen.
In conclusion this movie is wonderfully acted and gripping.  I
watched it for the first time and couldn't stop thinking about it for
three
days so, I went and watched it again.  I am going to see it one more time
and when it comes out on video I am going to buy it.  I feel this movie
has
a good shot at next year's best picture award and I certainly hope it wins
it.  In conclusion all I can tell you is GO SEE IT TODAY.

