1999_November 27 

The less you know about this highly compelling movie going in, the more
enjoyable it is, so stay away from your big mouth friends who love to give
every little detail.  Fight Club is a totally wicked satire about male
bonding, self-expectations and our inability to deal with the so-called
&quot;system&quot;.  Before this movie even came out, it was being blasted for its
violence and possibility of encouraging such &quot;fight clubs&quot;; total nonsense.
The movie does not give so much to these actions, as does the publicity
generated by an irresponsible media and the so-called &quot;watch dogs&quot; that
actually plant the notion into people's heads.<br /><br />Fight Club is based on the novel by Chuck Palahniuk and I could not think
of
a better novel to be adapted for the screen to show the angst toward the
inhuman society that we have created and let run rampant.   Edward Norton
is
the unnamed narrator who is a totally disillusioned worker bee who suffers
from insomnia.  To deal with his situation he seeks out support groups that
deal with terminal illnesses.  Still not finding any type of release, he
meets Tyler Durden (Brad Pitt, sporting an amazing set of six packs) and
his
life will never be the same.  The two form not only a strange bond, but
also
an underground club where men do battle with each other to unleash their
everyday frustrations with the world and themselves.  Now if the film was
only about the violence and fighting, it would succumb to boredom very
quickly, but this is a highly intelligent film that has much to say about
men and the society that men have created and have to deal
with.<br /><br />Director David Fincher displays a very visual knack and handles the back
and
forth time element with ease.  The fight scenes, stunningly staged, are
amazing to watch, but not for the faint of heart, they are brutal and
bloody.  The dialogue is intelligent, faced-paced and quite funny, while
the
acting is top notch.  In Pitt and Norton, you have two of today's finest
young actors, not to mention the biggest risk takers on the &quot;movie star&quot;
list.  These two, especially Pitt, take chances that other actors of their
caliber would not even think of, only Johnny Depp and Nicholas Cage comes
to
mind.  Add Tyler Durden to the top of Brad Pitt's off-kilter characters and
Edward Norton continues to astonish with his characterizations.  In a major
supporting role, Helena Bonham Carter creates an intense, memorable
performance as the hard-edged gal who has entered the life of Norton and
Pitt.<br /><br />&quot;Being John Malkovich&quot; is being touted as the original film this year and
although I have not seen it, I would rank &quot;Fight Club&quot; up there in
originality.  This film is one of the best this year, not too mention a
cult
hit in the making.  As far as the media condemning it as a reason for young
men to act out, I'm sorry but this film is too highly evolved,
sophisticated
and intelligent for your average male teenager raised on Adam Sandler
movies
and ultra non-hip Saturday Night Live episodes to endure.  Come to think of
it, Fight Club is not for your average moviegoer and that is a good thing.
Highly Recommend.

