2005_June 19 
Two of the best actors out there, Brad Pitt(12 Monkeys) and Edward
Norton(American History X), star in this fast paced and brutal look on
men who hate what they do. It focuses on one main man(of whom we never
know the real name of), Edward Norton, he's an insomniac and hasn't
slept for six months. He finds out that by letting out his feelings and
crying let him sleep like a baby, but when his plans are disrupted by
an addicted smoker Marla(Carter), he goes right back to sleep
deprivation. Norton works for a major car company whose cars aren't
exactly the safest in the world. His job is to travel around the
country and investigate the problems the cars are having. On one of his
flights, he meets a very interesting soap salesman named Tyler
Durden(Pitt). The two become friends and end up living together in a
rundown old house on Paper street. To get out their anger and just let
loose, they have boxing matches every week, they find it exciting. But
their fun starts to attract more and more working stiffs like
themselves, and soon enough, they end up having a club in an
underground basement of a bar every night of the week. The club soon
becomes a cult of rage, brutality, self-destruction, and mischief. <br /><br />Pitt gives a strong, odd, and highly charismatic performance. He makes
it just that much more fun to watch. Norton gives a very solid
performance as the everyday man turned insane loose cannon. Director
David Fincher's style with his movies are exquisite. His trademark
cinematography and the cool, sleek music make his films fun. Ed Norton
always seems to give an absolutely awesome performance in whatever he
does, I believe he is one of the greatest actors out there right now.
Although if it wasn't for Pitt, this film probably would have been more
of an independent other than a blockbuster. All in all, 'Fight Club' is
a disturbingly brutal, smart, violent, darkly funny, cool flick. It's
flawless performances, swift music, cinematography, and deeply smart
story make this movie a classic in my mind.
