2001_September 30 

Being definitely the best movie of 1999, it is impossible to discover the
reason of why this movie received so few awards. When I look at the awards
page of &quot;Fight Club&quot;, what do I see? That the movie won OFCS awards for
best
DVD and best DVD awards. Well, I thought that opinions are not to be
discussed, but I got to say this one: SHAME ON YOU!!! This movie is one of
the best in movie history, I have no doubt, and I can start figuring a why
to explain its overlooking by the academy awards and others: it is a
violent
slap in the face of all the people who think they are safe in their
monochordic lives, their credit cards, their stable jobs and their month
paychecks, which are used for owning things &quot;which end up owning
ourselves&quot;.
The philosophy of the movie is brutal, and never before seen in a movie
made
in USA grounds. Edward Norton and Brad Pitt turn out establishing
themselves
as two of the best actors to ever grace the silver screen, and David
Fincher
leaves us drooling for his next feature. This movie will stagger even the
most coldly hearted, as it depicts the life of a character whose name we
don't know (not until the end, that is), who we know just by the name of
&quot;Jack&quot;, and who lives a more than normal live: shirts, kakis, ties, a desk
job, a nice paycheck and his nights spent decorating his house and seeing
the tv-shopping. Jack has a problem: he can't sleep. He will find the cure
for this problem, but he will also find lots of other things. I can
guarantee it, you have never seen anything like this movie, and never miss
out the first 30 minutes, which have a frenetic rhythm to go with Jack's
first-person point of view of his life before his problems. I thought that
&quot;Se7en&quot; was one of my favorite movies. It still is, but it isn't alone.
The
fact that both movies come from the same director, it means a lot - it
means
that David Fincher is a powerhouse director who has a lot to give, and
from
who we may expect great and landmark-ish things from the future. I take my
hats off to the whole team: Pitt and Norton are stand-outs, the script is
the whole asset of the movie (Chuck Palahniuk's novel (from which the
movie
is inspired) is a smacking good piece of literature), the Dust Brothers'
electronic score is a record to own, Helena Bonham Carter's Marla is as
perfect as she could possibly be, the photography, the sound and the
editing
just make your jaw drop. Never miss out this one, and if you have a DVD
player, enjoy even more the experience in a finely-crafted package - at
least it won awards for that! One of those movies I would have given an
11.
No less. 
