2000_February 5 

Not many of the young men praying at this movies alter seem to realize
that
the film's ending totally derails its entire philosophy up to that point.
Till then, this somewhat intoxicating rant against consumer society and
the
emasculation of the modern male had at least been consistent.  The
'surprise' twist and 'happy' ending seem to negate everything that had
come
before and make it nothing more than a succession of stunningly filmed
images surrounded by the character study of a psychotic.  The protagonist
is
basically a loner who needs not only society's recognition, but also the
love of a woman.  When he can't get these, he turns to violence.  TAXI
DRIVER explored this theme much better.  He also has the need to be
someone
else, see through others eyes, -- role-play a little.  That aspect is
explored much better in BEING JOHN MALKOVICH.  In the end, though FIGHT
CLUB
looks great and has some great moments it just does not work well as a
film.
Many have called this movie the &quot;CLOCKWORK ORANGE of the 90's&quot;.  Not a
chance.  In twenty years Stanley Kubrick's film will still be viewed as a
classic.  FIGHT CLUB will by then be nothing but a distant memory.  Final
rating, a disappointing 5 out of 10.<br /><br />Another thought.  For over two hours (before the quick-fix happy ending),
this movie advocates violence as a way that men can re-establish their
place
in society.  Don't get me wrong, there are a lot of things that could
stand
improvement in this world and even American society.  There's certainly
room
for change.  But not this way.  This film's message is a dangerous one
that
might be taken to heart by many angry and impressionable young men
everywhere.  Think about it, ---what makes Ed Norton's character here any
different than the skinhead he played in AMERICAN HISTORY X?  At least in
that film his conversion into a tolerant and decent human being was far
more
gradual and believable.  Those who have blindly embraced FIGHT CLUB's
philosophy without seeing these underlying faults and contradictions
should
view it again from this new perspective.  It will give you food for
thought.<br /><br />Lastly, I'd like to point out that I'm perplexed regarding the very high
ratings this film seems to be getting from female voters.  This is
somewhat
surprising considering that it is quite anti-female and condescending to
women.  Perhaps this has something to do with the magnetic presence of
Brad
Pitt.  But then again, that's 'another' form of blinding oneself isn't it.<br /><br />
