2000_July 6 

Fight Club is the story of a man (Edward Norton) who is suffering from
insomnia.  He sleeps little, hates his white collar job, and is looking for
help.  He finds it in attending  a countless number of therapy groups that
range from Alcoholics Anonymous to a group for men with erectile
disfunction.  He finds comfort in being in a room full of troubled people
being helped, and pretends to have the same problems so he too can be
helped.  Another faker makes her presense and attends all of our
protagonist's sessions, which annoys him.  They make a deal to attend
sessions at different days.  While traveling on the job, He meets a soap
salesman (Brad Pitt) and after getting to know each other, they start Fight
Club, a new kind of therapy.  Our hero builds relationships with both Pitt's
character and the other faker from the therapy sessions.  The Fight Club
also builds, and spreads across the country.  I enjoyed this movie.  Right
from the beginning and through the movie, the main character is narrating
the entire movie (a la Forrest Gump).  There are many funny moments as he
endures things that life throws at him.  The movie builds from seeing the
hero in his everyday life, to forming a club, and witnessing the
mis-adventures he gets into from it.  I like the laughs that the movie
provides and it has a certain style and attitude to it.  Towards the end,
things get more serious and there is a major plot twist which is confusing
at first, but after you complete the movie, it all makes sense and you might
want to see the movie over again.  Some people will see this movie expecting
a &quot;fight&quot; movie with lots of brutal face-smashing and fist swinging.  That's
not what this movie is about.  This movie is about a man's downward spiral
and shows that an individual can also make a huge influence.  This is a very
intelligent movie and I find it very entertaining.  It is very long though,
139 minutes to be exact.  While Fight Club is not one of my all time
favorite movies, I still like it a lot.  If you like smart, witty movies,
give Fight Club a chance.
