2003_March 12 

Who can resist the teaming of actors like Brad Pitt, Edward Norton, and
Helena Bonham-Carter? Although David Fincher has come up with a few movies
people didn't care for, he is also responsible for thrillers like &quot;Seven&quot;
and &quot;The Game.&quot; And this movie is a let-down because I want so much to like
it, but when I really think, it's not that good! The movie begins like
somewhat of a black comedy. Norton is a white-collar office worker going
through a state of depression in which he attends meetings with victims of
various kinds of cancer. He befriends a testicular cancer patient named Bob
(Meat Loaf) and discovers that a woman named Marla (Bonham-Carter) is going
to all the same places.<br /><br />He meets Tyler Durden (Pitt) on a plane. Tyler owns his own soap business
and from the start we know he's more than he says. Tyler and Edward Norton
find therapy in beginning an underground bare-knuckle fight club in which
men compete for fun and derive some sort of perverse pleasure from beating
each other's brains in. The first few fights are actually somewhat
entertaining, but as they progress they become more graphic and more
tasteless. Tyler seems to disappear at one point and Norton is wondering
what is going on as all the members of Fight Club begin to form some sort of
underground army to challenge the establishment. Things grow frustrating
while we keep trying to figure out what is going on. No one is acting right,
not Marla, Bob, or anyone else. While not in the business of killing, these
men plan to blow up several high-rise office-buildings while no one is in
them. Norton tries to stop them. The final twist is a nice touch, but much
of the movie is fighting and excess that could just as easily have been left
out. We don't need to know that two men who are never fully developed lost
their two front teeth in a brawl. The self-destructive feeling that not only
is in the characters but gradually becomes the viewer is not what we want
when we sit down and watch a movie about fictional characters in very
personal situations.
