2006_April 19 
An action film that makes an effort, like every movie should, at giving
a life message. Brad Pitt does a nice job of playing an
inhibition-to-the-winds bad boy who sports leather and sunglasses at
night, and looks like a champion even when bleeding profusely while
getting his face punched in. He takes the character played by Edward
Norton away from his menial office job, and starts a life in which
Norton can take out his frustrations, and live on the edge by beating
the daylights out of other similarly hopeless men. The trouble comes
when Pitt starts giving homework to the fighters. The group starts to
become more of a criminal organization. Pitt then begins a program
called Project Mayhem, recruiting members of the Fight Club, making
them even more tough than the beat-downs of the Fight Club had made
them, and initiates a program of urban terrorism. Pitt&#39;s repeated
mantra is that he and his gathered army are the lowest of the low. They
have lost all hope, do not fear death, and are stronger for it. The
real twist comes when (ready? Here it comes&#133;) Pitt and Norton turn out
to be the same person. This poses a very interesting situation, as
Tyler (the character&#39;s name) struggles with himself to figure himself
out, and to prevent the mass terror Pitt has planned. The climax comes
when Norton shoots himself in the head, and kills Pitt. Miraculously
Norton survives, and watches ten credit card buildings downed by
homemade explosives. That&#39;s everything that is apparent to the viewer.
With that in mind, I found the scenes where Pitt fought Norton to be
ruined, as I realized that Norton was actually kicking his own butt.
However this got me thinking about the reality of the entire film. The
film was so fantastical and unreal that it is in fact possible that it
was not a film about urban terror, and beating the stuffing out of
others, but was about the internal struggle of one man. A man plagued
by insomnia, and living in a world in which he could not tell reality
from dreams.<br /><br />It&#39;s a movie about personal struggles. Struggling with fear,
self-loathing and desire. It was such an intense choice of theme, that
it was often times difficult to figure out. However a couple things
were clear. One was that those who have lost all hope are the strongest
of all, because they have nothing left to fear. Another was that fear
is a burden on all of us. It is what keeps us from doing what we truly
want to do. And it&#39;s true. Fear of something is the ultimate impediment
in our lives. The key is to let ourselves go, and to embrace pain as a
learning experience. Then we can be who we want, and do what we want.
Similarly, fear should be embraced, and should be used as a driving
force. At one point Pitt points a gun to convenience store clerk&#39;s
head, and orders him to become a veterinarian (like he had wanted to be
in his youth) or else Pitt would kill him. This was one of those action
movies that was fun to watch, albeit gruesome at times. It was visually
exciting and a tickling comedy as well. It wasn&#39;t cinematographically
amazing, but it wasn&#39;t boring in that sense. When is comes to a
message, it got it done also. It knew what its main message was from
the start, and it got it out there as well. However the crowning jewel
of this film was the way the intricate and bizarre plot was worked
flawlessly into the main idea, to create a seamless film. If this film
leaves you with a raised eyebrow, and an inquiring mind, it did its
job. But give it a chance. And remember, if it doesn&#39;t make you think,
it&#39;s not worth your time. -Michael
