2006_February 23 
One night I decided to intrude into neighboring computers in the local
dormitory network. Nothing personal, just looking for movies and mp3s.
The very first file I came across was an avi version of &quot;Fight club&quot;.
It was a stroke of luck since all I could find in the next few months
was almost worthless, but as for this movie - it was SO about time for
me! The last thing I paid attention to is the fights proper. But I was
appealed to this ingenious depiction of the suffocating atmosphere of
contemporary consumerism and inability of an average person to lead a
meaningful, and therefore satisfying, life. The movie deals with
insomnia and its underlying causes, the charm and usefulness of
self-destruction as well as the limitations of this approach. It also
makes you wonder how far you would go with transforming your
personality to avoid desperation, as opposed to changing yourself for
the one you love. The picture radiates an unexpected healing power -
neither due to the cinematographic merits per se, nor because of a
happy ending or positive message. I suppose, at least for the actual
target audience, it is the feeling you're not alone and there are many
other &quot;lost souls&quot; out there choking and coping with it just the way
you do. For me and a good friend of mine the movie actually meant
accepting our attitude towards existence and trying to live up to this
perception. We often found each other drinking and watching the movie
simultaneously when one emailed his buddy and passed him a reflection
that occurred to his mind during the film. Now this period is over but
we still know many episodes by heart and keep a very warm feeling to
the movie for all it gave us then. I guess there is no need to discuss
the excellent work by David Fincher and the cast &#150; the well-earned
praises abound elsewhere. But I do highly recommend finding the script
by Jim Uhls (available in the internet) and purchasing a double DVD
set. The extras, such as &quot;This is your life&quot; music video, render it an
excellent bargain.<br /><br />Go ahead and watch the movie. It's not about fighting others; it's
about challenging your life of convenience and compromise. Watch, then
think, then watch again. Just like that special &quot;Paper street soap&quot; by
Tyler Durden, it both feels good on the skin and it actually cleanses
you.
