2003_May 13 
<br /><br />This is how `Fight Club' operates: through the emblematic `bar of soap'
which decorates its marketing posters (and rather extensive ad campaign
including fake office-equipment brochures), the presentation of a
harmless
icon gives way to a sweepingly critical exegesis of consumer capitalism.
David Fincher's adaptation of the book by Chuck Palahniuk offers a
quasi-postmodern view of Marxist themes as they apply to the culture of
early twenty-first century capitalism. Fincher's `quasi-postmodernism'
comes
through in his presentation of the bi-level narrative within `Fight
Club;'
his Brechtian disregard for conventional aesthetic form is enacted by his
consistent breaks `through the fourth wall' (i.e. narrative exegesis of
plot
details directed toward the audience). His use of `C.G.E.'
(computer-graphical-effects) throughout the film are unobtrusive, and
serve
to visually heighten the suggested themes of technocratic,
`corporatarchic'
(ruled by corporate interests) fears which are implicit within the
culture
of late capitalism. Thus, while the film's narrative thread is presented
in
a chronologically linear fashion, the paroxysmal, disjointed presentation
of
its bi-leveled crescendo toward climax distances the audience in a manner
similar to any non-linear film. Essentially, in postmodern terms, Fincher
perfects the `verfremdung' (alienation) effect without having to resort
to
the manipulation of chronology.
Not coincidentally, the term `verfremdung' has its roots in Marxist
theory:
`Capitalism is only second to slavery in its ability to alienate the
worker'
(Marx, Philosophical and Economic Manuscripts). This concept of
`alienation'
is at the root of the central tension within `Fight Club:' just as
capitalism's exploitation of productive forces alienates the proletariat
from the fruits of her/his labor, so does the culture of late
capitalism's
forced sublimation of impulsive action alienate the individual from
her/his
emotions. To put it plainly, the culture in which a
Twinkie-factory-worker
must purchase a Twinkie with a portion of her income is the same culture
in
which she is forced to find emotional catharsis in furtive forums of
collective release.
Tyler says: &quot;we're an entire generation pumping gas, waiting tables;
we're slaves with white collars. Advertising has us chasing cars and
clothes, working jobs we hate so we can buy sh*t we don't need. We are
the
middle children of history, with no purpose or place. We have no great
war,
no great depression. Our great war is a spiritual war. Our great
depression
is our lives. We were raised on television to believe that we'd all be
millionaires, movie gods, rock stars, but we won't. And we're slowly
learning that fact. And we're very, very p***ed off.&quot;
. . . And thus is summarized the `Fight Club' manifesto.

