2004_April 2 

Favorite film:<br /><br />My favorite film is Fight Club. A movie which presents a perfect
representation of our world / society. At the beginning of the film, when
we
are  introduced to the principal character and narrator Jack (Edward
Norton).This narrator apparently has a perfect life: He has a stable job,
much money, designer clothes and an apartment with fashionable and
expensive
furniture.
But this kind of life does not satisfy him; he has a rebellious second `I'
which is represented by Tyler (Brad Pitt) and not discovered until the end
of the movie.
Jack admires Tyler and his day- to- day lifestyle. He is annoyed by all
the
repressions and by his job (he checks accidents in which the cars built by
his company were involved).
At the beginning of the story the spectator gets the impression that  both
actors belong to different social classes and that both begin a kind of
friendship due to the Fight Club; however, this proves to be
wrong.
Obviously, the movie shows us how materialistic and superficial our
society
is. The actor's luxurious apartment and the scene in which both characters
steal human fat from an aesthetic centre are perfect examples of
this.
Fight Club even underlines the fact that mass organizations like the Nazis
really destroy the personality of every member and that they can really
become dangerous (as the end of the movie shows).
The camerawork is also very fascinating: We are able to `travel' through
the
interior part of a bomb and through the different components of a
building.<br /><br />On the one hand there are many quick camera movements which speed up the
whole story, but on the other we also find some flashbacks which slow it
down.
The movie has many hints which lead us to its end; however, it is not easy
to recognize them. People usually need to watch it several times, both to
recognize the hints but also to find new, interesting elements.
Due to this, we have a very surprising end: as mentioned before, Tyler and
the other main character are different personalities of the same
person.
I think this is clearly representative for the fact that Jack is fighting
in
his interior. An interior which does not know which way to follow. Should
he
lead a lifestyle like the one Tyler has? Or should he be conservative and
go
on with his relatively boring, monotonous, working life?<br /><br />The fact that Jack considers our society as disease, or as something that
provokes illnesses (this is represented by Carla and Jack who need
treatment sessions of all kind: antialcoholics, antidepressiva,
anticancer,
antifatness, etc. even though they do not suffer illnesses of that type)
shows us that the character is in favor of Tyler's lifestyle. By using
this
split  personality, Jack escapes from his reality and  is able to fulfill
all his secret wishes (maybe for the `normal' society member considered as
really crazy wishes!).<br /><br />I really recommend everybody to watch this film; it is really fascinating
and innovative.

