2000_February 28 

After watching 'Fight Club' my mind was made up that David Fincher is
definately one of the best directors around, but I can only use that term
lightly, as I've only seen this and Se7en, Alien 3 doesn't count as i was
too young when I saw it, he also did an Aerosmith video and anything
concerning them scores in my book. Anyway, I watched this film in a cinema
at an empty matinee, but I really wished I had watched it with friends
because it's one of those films that deserves to be talked about
afterwards,
many people will be intrigued(?) by the ideas in he film, I wasn't as I
already had that way of thinking, but this film will open many people's
minds. I can't put all the kudos on Fincher, because as with every film
it's
the writer that makes it, and I read the excellent script (spec and
shooting) by Jim Uhls. (it's based on a book by C.Palanuik) and it's good
to
see that the film hasn't changed a great deal from the
paper.<br /><br />The start of the film is a really, really good credit sequence, the
soundtrack is excellent, and it got me really pumped up, and i expected
more
adrenaline moments like this later, but they never came, and that's my
personal fault with that 1st sequence. Anyway had I read that the film is
very good 1st half, but got stupid 2nd, so I just sat there expecting to
take things with a pinch of salt, but I never felt dissapointed, and I
never
got bored like I thought I would. This film kept me interested the whole
time, which is unusual for me in films without a point A to B storyline,
like the 'will he get the treasure type' story. What I like about the
directing, and this is what I like about Fincher and his style - he's
Fresh,
he isn't a Follow-the-Leader type, he does things in slightly different
way,
the credits going the opposite way in Se7en sum him all up for me. Fight
Club also stays visually interesing throughout, and the imagery has stayed
in my head since I watched it months ago. I'm just dissapointed it didn't
get any major award nominations, It's really a film that deserves the
praise, American Beauty got nominated with it's dark and sexual
representation of American Suburbia, which is something the Acadamy stays
away from, so why couldn't Fight Club have one, I personally found that
Fight Club had a more positive message than AB (PS I don't hate A.Beauty)
Fight Club's the kind of film i'd take an under-17 to watch, as it has
something to say, and could teach some people a thing or two.<br /><br />I know a lot of people who thought that Fight Club was a film just about
fighting, I knew before watching it wasn't and I hope that's not what it'll
be remembered for, and it should be a film that is remembered. Fincher has
2
modern-day clasics under his belt, and that takes some
doing.
