2000_June 30 

Soap, mischief, mayhem, movie making genius. Once again, Hollywood has
proven that the Oscar's do not mean crap. Fight Club is the soap that
cleanses theaters of such &quot;high tech&quot; garbage as Independence Day and such
unreal garbage as American Beauty (want to see a real disturbing look at
society, try the Ice Storm). Fight Club is blend of surreal images, moody
backdrops, viewer/narrator interaction, incredible music,dark humor, and
soap. Just the opening sequence alone (perhaps the best ever, giving new
meaning to &quot;in medias res&quot;) will cause you to salivate like a rabid
canine.
Oh, I did mention this is a political film? Anyways, the premise seems
simple enough. The narrator of the film, who we will call &quot;Jack,&quot; is an
insomniac trapped in a dead-end, worker bee, corporate job. The only other
important aspect of Jack's life is his condo filled with clever art,
Swedish
furniture, and a refrigerator full of condiments. That is, until Jack
meets
Tyler Durden, an eccentric fellow he meets on an air plane. Jack soon
learns
that Tyler is full of &quot;useful information.&quot; There are two insanely
glorious
scenes that take place during and after his meeting with Tyler. Once scene
involves a new look at airline emergency manuals and the other involves a
hilarious look at dildos and vibrating luggage-- not to be missed.
Anyways,
enough about the plot. The film is one big Goodyear blimp full of
anti-corporate messages and the lie of the &quot;so-called information age.&quot; In
fact, it find it totally amazing this film even made it to theaters! The
same corporate mush heads who the film admonishes are the same people who
finance this picture (the fine people at Fox, &quot;when corporate scumbags
attack!! Next on Fox.) This is,however, the same reason Fight Club hopped
in
and out of the theater and failed to gain ol' Oscar's attention. In fact,
if
you see the trailers for the movie, it looks like &quot;See Brad Pitt fight,
see
Brad Pitt take off his shirt, see Fight Club.&quot; They tried to sell the
movie
for everything it wasn't. The movie is a sharp, brutally honest, social
commentary, and the acting was phenomenal. Ed Norton is incredible as
always, and Brad Pitt plays Tyler to perfection. They originally thought
of
casting Sean Penn as Tyler, but believe me only Brad could have pulled
this
one off. Fight Club, Three Kings, Being John Malkovich are three films
that
have raised my expectations of film making; they are what Hollywood should
be. But of course like any film with a message, with intelligent writing,
that makes people think and question ends up in the La Brea Tar pit of
Hollywood. So until Oscar finds the many creative uses of soap (watch the
film), it is up to you to discover what great movie making is all about.<br /><br />
