

When I first saw Schindlers list in the theater when it first came out, I
was left stunned and emotionally drained. Now with the release of the film
on DVD I am still in awe of the precision and accuracy that it portrays of
the atrocities committed by the Nazi's during the second world war.  Stephen
Spielbergs decision to make the movie entirely in black and white was pure
genius and shows why he he is as successful of a director as he is.  This
film is such a departure from other films that Spielberg has made and is a
testament to his sincere embracing of the storyline and content of the
story.  While this film is long by most standards, nearly twice as long as
most contemporary films, it does not drag and keeps the audience rapt
attention.  It is the type of film which comes along once in a great while
which truly captures the imagination of the audience.  The subject matter
makes this film one which one truly cannot express as an enjoyable film, but
on a higher level it is insightful and inspires one to really see how one
person can truly change the world, at least their part of the world.  Oskar
Schindler was a scheming war profiteer who had no interest in any part of
world politics, the winds of war were blowing in his direction and he took
full advantage of it.  As the war progressed and he became a witness to the
horrific acts committed by the Nazi's against the Jews he became to see the
Jews in a different light to what the political propaganda was saying and he
developed a conscience which ultimately led him to expend vast sums of money
in bribes and political favors to protect his workers in his factory,
initially under the guise of needing to keep trained workers in his factory
to maintain production, but eventually because he could see how his workers
people were being made to suffer and were being brutally murdered simply
because of a misguided political doctrine.  Acting in this movie is superb,
Lliam Neeson was nominated for best actor for his portrayal of Oskar
Schindler and ultimately lost the award to Tom Hanks portrayal of a dying
HIV positive lawyer in Philadelphia, this was truly one of those times when
the Academy had a very difficult decision to make as both actors justifiably
deserved the award.  Ralph Fiennes was nominated as best supporting actor
for his role as the homicidal concentration camp Kommindant Amon Goeth, he
ultimately lost the award to Tommy Lee Jones for his work in the Fugitive. 
Surprisingly one actor who did not receive a nomination, but should have
would be Ben Kingsley who deservedly could easily have won the award for his
portrayal of Jewish accountant Itzhak Stern who cooperated and assisted
Oskar Schindler in running his Enamelware factory and ultimately used his
intelligence to manipulate the system to encompass as many unskilled
laborers as possible into Schindlers factory, persons who otherwise would
have gone to the death camps as they were primarily musicians, writers and
teachers, all who were considered high priority execution material by the
Nazi regime.  This is a truly remarkable, emotional and moving film that
will easily stand the test of time and remain a classic for years to come,
it would be highly recommended and should be mandatory viewing material for
all high school aged students who wish to graduate, as this film is not just
a depiction of the events of World War II, but is also a reflection of the
inner monster that lives within all mankind, hatred, and how there also
lives within us a capacity to do great good for our fellow
man.
