
Steven Spielberg delivers his masterpiece here in telling the very
unknown story of a German Nazi Party member who became the savior for
over 1100 Jews during the height of the Holocaust. This is very dark
material and Spielberg was wise enough to film it in black and white
obviously to emphasize the bleakness of the situation. Here all the
elements come together and mesh fluidly. The acting is superb with Liam
Neeson perfectly capturing the multiple emotional cycles that Schindler
went through. At first, he is happy and wealthy yet struggles with the
relationship to his wife. As the story progresses, he becomes more
saddened and shocked at the horrific events that are taking place on
Jews in the local towns of Poland. He then decides to use the immense
wealth he has gathered to try and save those that worked for him in
Poland before they were moved to concentration camps towards the end of
WWII. This is not a happy story at all, and yet there is something so
beautiful about this picture. When I first saw it, I cried at multiple
scenes. Now, after seeing it for the second time, I was more taken
aback and could only watch in awe as a simple German businessman did
something that only a handful of human beings would have the courage to
do. He went face to face with multiple SS officers, including the
demented head of the camp Amon Goeth played sinisterly by Ralph
Fiennes, in order to save all he can. The last hour of the film showing
Schindler collect all his money together so he can pay for the Jews to
move them to safety can only amaze and stun you as we watch one man
risk and sacrifice all he owns for the benefit of 110 strangers he
knows nothing about. Here it is all about the quality of human life and
how important one person can be to so many others. This truly is one of
the greatest films ever made and it is in my mind the best of the last
decade. Not to be missed by anyone, Schindler&#39;s List is more than a
film; it is an experience of a n event that I pray will never occur
again.
