

Schindler's List did quite well at the box office, while it guaranteed the
maker his first Oscar for directing. Jane Campion edged him out for several
of the year-end awards given by critics groups, but the Academy put him at
the top of their &quot;A&quot; list for this effort. 1993 was quite a year for
Spielberg. JURASSIC PARK went goofy worldwide, eclipsing yet another
Spielberg megabuck effort, E.T. Schindler's List may never quite reach the
same box-office stratosphere, but Spielberg can certainly be most pleased
and proud of this film. 
Shot in glorious black and white, it is the heart-wrenching story of a group
of Jews condemned to the Krakow Ghetto who are saved by a most unlikely
guardian angel, a German businessman named Oskar Schindler. Herr Schindler
is, at first, only interested in these people as cheap labor that can
further enhance his bank account, but somewhere along the way he gains a
measure of humanity and is soon taking substantial risks for &quot;his&quot; Jews. The
movie isn't precisely clear about why this drastic character change takes
place, but that hardly matters. The inherent drama of the turbulent
situation carries us along for the full three hours, and you'll be
hard-pressed not to shed a few tears during the journey. Liam Neeson does a
stalwart job of filling the Schindler shoes, not skimping on the little
character details while looming larger than life. It has been noted that
Neeson has the presence of an old-fashioned movie star and as Schindler, he
shows that he knows what to do with it. The real-life Schindler was
described as a cross between Curt Jurgens and George Sanders.<br /><br />Also quietly impressive is that Gandhi guy, Ben Kingsley, as Itzhak, a very
clever accountant who is the brains behind the Schindler empire. Newcomer
Ralph Fiennes has also copped some Best Supporting Actor awards for his
nasty Nazi, Amon Goeth, who heads up the Plaszow forced labor camp. When
bored, Goeth picks off unsuspecting prisoners with his rifle from the
terrace of his villa. Chilling. The rest of the large cast has been
carefully chosen, the script is intelligent, the music is sweeping, and that
cinematography by Janusz Kaminski is a knockout. The complaints about
Schindler's List are mostly minor. At one point Spielberg feels compelled to
use a special-effects trick. It looks like a cheap cut-and-paste job.
Couldn't the man who made dinosaurs walk the earth so realistically pull off
this relatively simple stunt? The protracted finale also got on my nerves.
After the movie climaxes, the director lets it drag on with a heartfelt but
misplaced tribute to the actual survivors. Mr. Spielberg, your manipulation
is showing. <br /><br />
