

This movie took a subject which was extremely complicated and difficult,
and
dumbed it down to the level that everyone except Representative Tom Coburn
(OK) could understand it (he complained about the networks &quot;polluting the
minds of our children&quot; when it was shown on tv, because it had nudity and
violence).
Oscar Schindler was an anti-semite, a real anti-semite. Someone once asked
him why he had done what he did, and he said something along the lines of
&quot;if you see a dog hit by a car dying in the street, you know you're better
then the dog, but you still want to help it&quot; (he was equating Jews with
dogs, placing them on the same moral level). He was also a womanizer and
alcoholic. The golden ring he was given at the end of the film, in real
life
was later traded for a drink. This was not the same Schindler portrayed in
the movie. The film attempted to show some of his &quot;seedy&quot; side, I think
that's what the secretary hiring scene was supposed to be, but it didn't
really work, and I didn't end up thinking Oscar Schindler was that bad of a
guy. This could have been a much richer film if it was about a bad person
who did a good thing, which was what the historical event actually was.<br /><br />The film, I think, was meant to be an educational project. It was meant to
teach people about the holocaust when they really didn't know much about
it.
As that, it succeeds. This is a movie that should be shown to middle school
students when the holocaust is being studied. It brings knowledge to the
masses which they otherwise would not have known about. but as art, as a
movie, it just dressed itself up as a &quot;serious art film&quot;, while actually
really dumbing down the subject. If you're already familiar with the
subject
matter, if you already knew genocide was bad, that Nazis were crazy, and
that the holocaust was an enraging and sad event, then there's really
nothing in the movie to think about. I would put this film in the same
class
as Man On The Moon - mediocre films that have nothing to offer beyond
introducing the audience to events they may be unfamiliar with.

