

Spielberg's much hyped film is a dangerous piece of work. It is unforgivably
manipulative, using cinematic effects to connote horror and emotional
involvement which serve only to distract the viewer from any sort of truth
(in particular: the girl in the red coat, trite heart-string pulling). Yes,
I know the intentions were good and that something like this should exist to
continue the memory of the holocaust, but this is not it. This is emotional
pornography, it's worthiness is sickening and it's heavy-handed nature
merely bruises the audience into submission.
This is how the tragedy of the holocaust will be remembered, a single story
(with a seemingly happyish ending) with a hero. It's not totally factually
accurate, yet it holds itself up as evidence. It is not. It is a fiction
BASED on real events. Spielberg, with his influence, has rewritten history
forever, a morally dubious thing to do.
The photography is good, there are a couple of good performances (especially
Ben Kingsley), the special effects are superb. But this is not a brilliant
film, aesthetically or morally. It is disgraceful. If Spielberg was not
Jewish himself, there would have been an uproar. It is a dangerous document.
And as for playing it in schools (along with Amistad and Saving Private Ryan
- both of which are as bad if not worse that SL) as has been suggested
above, that I find very disturbing.<br /><br />This film, preaching on high morals has made a few people a LOT of money. I
know it was in black and white and over three hours long (which is
uncommercial) but if Spielberg wanted to get closer to 'truth' (b+w IS NOT
TRUTH, these things happened in colour! Newsreels are not TRUTH, they only
act to remind you of the distance between you and what you are watching) why
didn't he use all German and Polish speaking actors with subtitles? Because
it wouldn't have made as much money, that's why.
I'm sick of all this worthy praise of such an incredibly dodgy film. Watch
'SHOAH' instead and maybe you'll all actually learn something.
