
Steven Spielberg&#39;s versatility can no longer be a question once you
have seen Schindler&#39;s List, one of the all-time quintessential American
films. Where his most commercially successful films have been fantasies
with enormous suspension of disbelief and elements of childlike wonder,
Schindler&#39;s List is unremittingly real, not only in its story and
subject matter but in its portrayal of a horrific point in history. One
of the most unforgettable sequences I have ever seen in a movie is the
SS clearing the Krakow ghetto, sending in hundreds of troops to empty
the cramped rooms and shoot anyone who protests, does not cooperate,
elderly or infirmed, or for no reason at all. The strange
unpredictability of the sequence is masterful, such as the
heartbreaking point during when the lone boy desperately tries to find
a place to hide. Or when one SS officer plays a piano and carries on a
nonchalant discussion while machine guns massacre hiding tenants. As
Oskar Schindler, perhaps Liam Neeson&#39;s greatest role, watches the
carnage from the hills overlooking the area, and is profoundly
affected, during one of the most oft-revered employments of color
technique in contemporary cinema.<br /><br />Oskar Schindler&#39;s story is so purely human, as opposed to what could
have been a clearcut good vs. evil storyline in a film depicting the
Holocaust. Schindler is a crass businessman from Czechoslovakia who
takes advantage of the abundantly cheap work force of Jews to
manufacture for the German military. He is a coldly opportunistic
member of the Nazi Party, smothering the army with bribes as well as SS
officials in charge. Funded by the military, he procures a factory for
army mess kits. Not being shrewd enough to suitably run such an
enterprise, he develops a connection with Itzhak Stern, played by Ben
Kingsley in his best performance next to Sexy Beast, a functionary in
the local Jewish Council who has contacts with the now underground
Jewish business community in the Ghetto. They loan him the money for
the factory in return for a small share of products for black market
trade. Schindler makes the Nazis happy and takes pleasure in his wealth
and status while Stern actually does the handling of the organization.
When Stern suggests Schindler hire Jews instead of Poles because they
cost less, this means that the Jews themselves get nothing. Their wages
go to the Reich. Schindler&#39;s Jews are allowed outside the ghetto
though, and Stern fabricate documents to guarantee that as many people
as possible are deemed essential by the Nazi bureaucracy, which saves
them from being transported to concentration camps.<br /><br />Schindler is not doing any of this to salvage the lives of these
people. He&#39;s doing it because of the financial benefits. His
realization of his advantage to save lives comes slowly as a sincere
and valid human evolution and progression. It is an essential unlikely
hero story, true, self-effacing without airs, and humbling. It is
however current that drives the epic depiction of truly mortifying
horrors. There are many scenes even aside from the Krakow ghetto scene
that may perhaps create blood clots in your head. Truly the most
unforgettable performance is given by Ralph Fiennes, playing SS
official Gothe, a relentlessly evil character in the coldest, cruelest
sense.
