
In one of the final scenes of &quot;Schindler's List,&quot; which may serve as a
microcosm of this terribly flawed movie, a camp inmate is depicted as
being so grateful to his kindly and charitable Nazi liberator that with
his own hand he removes a gold tooth from his own mouth and gratefully
hands it to the Nazi as a gift. Allowing that such a thing may actually
have taken place, still I believe one is entitled to question the
artistic judgment the director exercised in showing it. Surely Mr.
Spielberg has seen the film &quot;Judgment at Nuremberg&quot; and knows that
among the damning evidence presented by the United States Army War
Tribunal against Nazi war criminals were gold teeth that were forcibly
removed from the mouths of inmates and kept as booty by the thugs who
ran the camps. In the wake of the war crimes trials, the extracted gold
tooth became one of the main icons or symbols of the horrible wrongs
perpetrated against the Jews by the Nazis. What kind of a sick joke is
it to show a camp inmate voluntarily extracting his own gold tooth,
when it is very well known that it was usually either Nazi camp guards
or &quot;sonderkommandos&quot; (camp inmates who turned traitor) who forcibly
performed the extractions, sometimes before the victim was even put to
death? <br /><br />The entire movie is defective in my opinion, because it conveys the
idea that there was significant Nazi sympathy for concentration camp
inmates. For a generation of film-goer who did not live through World
War II and who were born decades later, this film may be the only one
they'll see on the subject of concentration camps and the Nazis. Many
of the audience probably left the theaters after seeing this film with
the false impression that it wasn't so bad in the forced labor camps
because the guys running them were sympathetic, charitably minded human
beings. In fact, most Nazis who had anything to do with the camps or
forced labor were the worst sort of subhuman vermin (they were called
the &quot;scum of Europe&quot; at the time). What purpose does it serve to depict
any Nazi with control over concentration camp inmates as a
philanthropist, with a charming romantic passion for his imprisoned
slaves? <br /><br />As a rule, any so-called historical truth is open to question and
doubt, never more so in a movie than here. Although the facts in
&quot;Schindler's List&quot; are generally accepted by film-goers and critics
alike (according to the press), can we be absolutely sure they are
true, when everything else we know about the subject runs 180 degrees
in the opposite direction? Just because a work has been published or
produced doesn't make it true. Many historical accounts have been
proved wrong in spirit and in fact.<br /><br />The danger of any movie that treats controversial and ethically
difficult historical subject matter is that it is likely to be regarded
as a universal truth about the period instead of as a particular story.
So I don't regard this movie as true history, because it is misleading
as a generalization. And possibly some or all of the relevant &quot;facts&quot;
presented are false or distorted. I recommend to anyone who does not
want to be misled about the holocaust that they see &quot;Judgment at
Nuremberg&quot; instead!
