

perhaps it's a clue about the sad state of our world, the inevitability of
the holocausts of the past and the holocausts yet to come, that a full half
of the films rated higher on the imdb top 250 than this monumental movie
celebrate violence and war. blood and death are now and have always been
the
high art of our greedy raging world. we can pray for the future, but peace
can only come true if people are willing to see the world through the
vision
of justice, respect for humanity and willing to sacrifice so others may
live. That is why i suggest the visions of Keneally, spielberg and oskar
schindler. this movie is so magnificent from here on out all my grades will
go down in perspective. 12 oscar noms, 7 wins (including picture and
director), a host of other accolades, all amply deserved. there is just so
much to admire: the mix of large scale storytelling with countless smaller
story arcs (kudos to  Steven Zaillian's oscar winning adapation of
keneally's wondrous novel), hundreds of amazing and daring cinematic
touches
(set design, cinematography, and editing all also picked up statues) dozens
upon dozens of bravura performances, monolithic sets with literal casts of
thousands, impressive historical accuracy, the list is near endless, a
series of beauties rising into ultimate truth: a film with a soul. perhaps
the powerful beauty of this film is that spielberg does not put a hollywood
polish on the fact that oskar schindler was a comprised man yet capable of
tremendous goodness. in some ways this can be seen as spielberg's first
mature film and it's entirely appropriate that this was the first time he
collected an oscar after 5 noms. the journalist in me wants to document all
the details in this well earned victory, but the humanist in me just wants
to thanks everyone involved for the fact it exists. whatever else may be
wrong with our planet we can still find hope in the fact that men like
schindler are remembered and revered and honored in such an celebrated and
immensely popular film. if my words can make you see a film or work for
peace, let this one be the one, let now be the time. 
