

I would like to make my feelings known for the first time ever on the
internet about one of my favorite films.  I do not think that Schindler's
List is the greatest film of all time (although I am absolutely delighted
that it is rated at #4 on the IMDb list and was #9 on the AFI list of the
greatest films ever in the last century) but it is certainly one of the
top
three greatest war films of all time.  It was more than poetic justice
that
Steven Spielberg was finally vindicated when he was named as the Best
Director of 1993 and this film the very best of that year.  What made it
special for me personally (since I am an Anglophile) was that the top four
acting roles went to Brits: Liam Neeson as Oscar Schindler; Ralph Fiennes
as
Goeth; Ben Kingsley as Stern; and Caroline Goodall as Emilie Schindler.
The
fact that it was filmed in black and white with stunningly effective
cinematography enhanced the film's uniqueness although it was obviously an
Oscar bid by Spielberg, who had agonized over whether to have the project
helmed by Roman Polanski before he himself took on the burden.  (How
ironic
that only recently Polanski was justly honored for his great work for
directing The Pianist, which I think is the best film since Titanic).  I
can
understand why there is a continual debate about the significance of this
film, but it cannot be denied that it is a necessary work of art and a
very
valuable history lesson, particularly now that we are once again a nation
at
war with anti-Semitic totalitarianism.  I support anyone's right to free
speech, but I am truly appalled that many Americans want to deny that
there
was even a Holocaust, or wish to forget what happened in the past, and
find
personal satisfaction in condemning this movie as overrated or mere Jewish
propaganda to downplay any other horrific crimes committed by other
nations
in times of war throughout history.  I was not at all surprised when
Titanic
became such a huge hit (the biggest in fact since Gone With The Wind) that
even schoolchildren began doing book reports on the subject and the entire
movie-going planet seemed to erupt in Titanicmania.  Common sense will
tell
anyone willing to take the time to think about it that the Holocaust was
the
Titanic at least five thousand times over, and to be honest, I would
rather
drown in freezing ocean water two miles deep in the dead of night than
face
death in the gas chambers of Auschwitz.
I still think it was ridiculous that James Cameron asked for a moment of
silence for the victims of history's most celebrated shipwreck at the end
of
his Oscar acceptance speech, when Steven Spielberg merely (and politely)
asked that the nation's schoolteachers &quot;please teach this in your schools&quot;
when he was so honored for making a film about the most ghastly crimes of
the millennium.  There is a huge difference between escapist entertainment
and serious enlightenment when it comes to movie making.  Just ask Steven
Spielberg, who has also directed some of the biggest blockbusters ever
made.
His heart's desire is clearly the driving force behind all of his films;
Schindler's List most of all.

