

Few Films on this planet can meet the feeling you get from watching this
film. An amazing amount of emotions run through your veins and its through
this emotions we are manipulated into seeing through the eyes of Steven
Spielberg's amazing vision. After seeing this film for first time I cannot
tell you the amount respect I felt for Jews and my fellow person. This film
makes you realise who you are and what we need to become to put our petty
differences aside.
Liam Neeson is magnificent, his portrayal of his character is perfect
and he shows a softness and a love for people throughout the film and Liam
Neeson portrays this perfectly, his character is a womaniser yet he is very
aware of his faults and to the viewer its remarkable how much you can
understand from him. Through the actors Steven Spielberg brings this epic
to
life.
Ralph Fiennes one of Britain's amazing exports shows how a character
can
be consumed with hate and be able to survive with the things he has done.
The acting in this film is creative and very very believable. Ralph
represents the element of fear. As his character develops and matures we
see
that his character can change yet he doesn't want to. here is a amazing
amount of subliminal messages which are put in this film and the viewer can
identify with this everytime.
Ben Kingsley is absolutely perfectly cast as he plays his role with an
amazing amount of power and strength eventhough his role is supposed a very
fragile person. he portrays this person perfectly, but allows the viewer to
see the hope and the hate in others. This is how Spielberg not only has
made
the perfect film but he manipulates our fears and our truths and shows we
can change, he does this in amazing fashion. 3 hours plus this film is
short
and its short because you cannot feel it, if you are prepared to give this
film the chance it deserves. Its beautifully set and the black and white
colour of the film portrays a meaning that only a viewer can interpret, Ill
leave that to you.<br /><br />
