
Spielberg films are always fantastic, but after seeing this film I will
never see him in the same light again! This is an extremely brilliant
film, it tops off any other Spielberg film that he has ever made, and
will never be beaten by any other Spielberg film to come. It's next to
impossible to make a film as brilliant as this truly moving
masterpiece! The film is shot in grainy black and white to add to the
effect of this film and to give the audience more of an impression that
they are in the film. This is the point when a film isn't a film, this
is a phenomenon that will live on throughout the centuries! <br /><br />This harrowing film follows a German officer named Oskar Schindler, who
is very much against what the Germans are doing to all the Jews. The
film follows him, who tries his hardest to save as many lives as
possible. He and his assistant makes a list of as many Jews they can
possibly get, and Schindler uses every last penny of his to save as
many Jews as he can. The first half of the film follows Schindler who
is coming to terms with the war, then as the second half begins
Schindler starts to fight against the Germans who are murdering
innocent Jewish civilians! Most of the detail is top of the class, with
the gore non-stop and it all adds up to one emotional experience, one
that is a film you must see before you die! <br /><br />The film may run for 3 hours, but the story is stretched out and
focuses on the whole holocaust in great detail! The film seems to have
next to no visual effects, Spielberg has relied on the images that he
films for real, and no more of that ridiculous CGI we see too much of
these days, and that is what makes it more realistic! I love this
movie, this is one of the most harrowing a realistic films ever made,
and Spielberg has excelled himself with such a fine masterpiece. Not
even such films like 'Saving Private Ryan' or 'Jurassic Park' and not
even 'Raiders of the Lost Ark' can beat this film, and it will stay as
one of the best films in history, unless Spielberg breaks out with
another brilliant film (like his upcoming Abraham Lincoln film, or
possibly Indiana Jones 4, especially after all the troubles it has gone
through). If this can be counted as a war film, then it is the best war
film ever made, but even if it is counted as a film about just the
holocaust it is still the best film about the holocaust! This film is
just too brilliant beyond words! <br /><br />10/10, an astoundingly brilliant film. This is well worth 3 hours of
your time, just don't watch it alone due to the adult themes.
