2003_February 20 

Let me starts off by saying, Married... with Children is one of the
funniest
shows on television. The jokes never seem to get old, all the characters
are
original, and absolutely funny, and the episodes deliver nothing but
laughs,
and entertainment. Ed O'Neill stars as Al Bundy, a middle aged women's
show
salesman who gets little, or no respect from his family, his wife is Peggy
Bundy (Katey Sagal), a sexually frustrated house wife who doesn't cook,
clean, or do anything at all. Al's children are Kelly (Christina
Applegate)
and Bud (David Faustino). Kelly is literally stupid, but she is very
popular
in school, but Bud deems her a &quot;blonde bimbo&quot;. Bud, seems to never get any
girls, he always tries to be somebody different, such as &quot;Grandmaster B&quot;.
The characters featured in this show are so funny, and so original. Ed
O'Neill usually says stuff that will make you laugh, but lots of times, he
can make someone laugh just by a facial expression. Al and his next door
neighbor, Marcie Rhoades D'arcy, always call each other names, and they
always fight all the time. Al is always telling Marcy that she is a
chicken,
and she has no boobs. Marcy always teases Al with the fact that he cannot
sexually please Peggy. The Bundy kids, Kelly, and Bud, are also funny.
Every
time Bud would make a joke at Kelly, she would turn the joke around, and
make it even funnier. Christina Applegate is very hot, and I say that she
was perfect for the role of Kelly. Bud, is just funny in general. Every
season, he always comes up with a new attire, once he was &quot;Grandmaster B&quot;,
and I forgot the rest of his attires. The two neighbors that live right
next
to the Bundy's are Marcie, and Steve Rhodes (David Garrison left in 1990,
so
in 1991, Ted McGinley replaced the character Steve). Marcie's first
husband,
Steve, played by David Garrison, is an original character, but isn't as
funny as Jefferson. Marcie is very funny in general, her crying acts are
literally classic. Jefferson's character is also very funny, and original.
Jefferson has never worked, and he refers to himself as a &quot;House Husband&quot;.
The show is literally always funny in general. I believe in one episode,
the
makers of the show dressed up a monkey in the same type of clothing that
Al
wears, and they monkey put its hand down it's pants. Sometimes, the acting
can get half-assed, and very, very few times, they use some jokes that
aren't very funny, but that's only like once every 4 seasons. If you have
not seen Married With Children, I strongly recommend that you do. This
show
is literally the show that made Fox what it is. 10 out of 10. A true
classic.
