2000_February 7 

I first watched episodes of Married With Children in 1989 on FOX Network TV
during the time when a Michigan housewife named Terry Rakolta tried to
organize a boycott of the TV sitcom for its &quot;unabashed raunchiness.&quot;  But I
immediately liked the episodes that I saw and I became an instant fan.  The
characters where the most nasty ever of any sitcom. Although they
occasionally let it slip that they cared for each other, every member of
the
household (even the family dog Buck) seemed bent on belittling and putting
down each other.  The Bundys were incredibly, vicious, mean-spirited,
selfish, cruel and unapolgetic. Al Bundy was a lowly, chauvinist shoe
salesman who worked a local shopping mall; his tall, redhead wife of 15+
years, Peggy, was a lazy housewife; and their juvenile delinquent kids,
Kelly (age 15 in 1987) and Bud (age 12 in 1987), were always at each
other's
throats. Al's bedroom prowess, or lack of it, was the frequent topic of the
shows, as well as Al's job. He was disliked by most of the town because he
was a shoe salesman and that shoe salesman are the lowest of the low for
they even rank below the homeless (a running joke used throught the series.
Other running jokes included raunchy jokes about impotence, remarks about
Peggy's always unseen obese mother, degrading jokes about fat women, and
disparaging remarks about other TV network stations, CBS, NBC and ABC, all
of which are FOX's competitors.)  Al Bundy, in my opion, was the best bigot
since All In The Family's character of Archie Bunker.  Peggy never cooked,
cleaned, or had a real job, Kelly became a sexpot with an IQ always one
point lower than her age, and Bud was the loser who was so wrapped up in
himself to know even how to come on to a member of the opposite sex and he
seldom suceeded.<br /><br />David Garrison and Amanda Bearse were equally good as the Bundy's next door
neighbors, Steve and Marcy Rhoades.  I was a little disapointed when David
Garrison quit the series in early 1990, but my intrest in the Bundy's never
ceased.  Ted McGinley, joined the cast a year later as Marcy's new husband
Jefferson D'Arcy, a gigalo and ex-con, who like Peggy, never had a real job
and lived off Marcy's money.<br /><br />If MWC was not the best sitcom, it was certainly longest running and the
most funniest which set the theme for other sitcoms of today. But none of
them will ever be as funny and as noticing as Married With Children. I miss
watching it, but I will never forget it.
