2005_February 13 
Who is Al Bundy? Does such a person really exist? I think not. Nobody
could be this nasty all the time and in the first season he actually
wasn't. He sometimes tried to be a loving husband and father and his
wife Peg wasn't the do nothing couch potato she later became. The kids,
Bud and Kelly were more caricatures. They didn't seem to do anything
except torture each other and whine.<br /><br />Then came the second season. Peg got more and more lazy and Al more
nasty. The best episode from that season was where Peggy saw a mouse
and Al tried to catch it but finally had to give in and call a
professional. Here Peg really shows her future mannerisms like whining
when she's not given her way and Kelly becomes more dimwitted than she
was before. And let us not forget the two side characters Steve and
Marcy Rhoades (later Marcy D'arcy). They were essentially counterpoints
to Al and Peg in the first season being newlyweds and very much in
love. Steve was tempted to follow in Al's footsteps but was always set
straight by Marcy. Now, Steve was a total clone of Al in many ways and
Marcy also got more hot tempered especially when reminiscing about her
disturbing childhood.<br /><br />If the producers had stuck to this format the show would have been No.
1 in my opinion but they had to turn both Peg and Kelly into trashy
airheads and Bud into a sex-starved geek. And lets not forget the
rather dull addition Jefferson. Yes, he was supposed to have a dark
past as a CIA agent although the name was never mentioned but that
storyline was so clumsily written that you just had to gag. Also his
desire to do as little as possible was handled awkwardly. He simply
became a male version of Peggy. Last but not least there was the
dreadful NO MAAM group. Yes, I could see what they were supposed to
represent, a response to the exaggerated PC behaviour we were flooded
with in the 90's, but the members of that group were too much like
working class stereotypes that it made me wince. They could have been
handled more intelligently.<br /><br />But all that aside I admire the creators Michael G. Moye and Ron
Leavitt for even coming up with the idea that sitcoms didn't have to be
sugarcoated all the time like on the Cosby Show. And if they hadn't
been so successful, I don't believe the Simpsons would ever had seen
the light of day. So Fox must also be congratulated for being so ahead
of its time and where would the show have been without Ed O'Neill as Al
who was far from the first choice. Like Ted McGinley said: He carried
the show. It's a shame then that he hasn't done a guest voice spot on
the Simpsons yet. He has only been spoofed one or two times. Like I
said his character was an essential influence on the Homer Simpson
character and Dan Castellaneta has even been on Married with Children a
couple of times. It would have been fun to see Al Bundy and Homer
Simpson square of on the Simpsons.
