2012_January 3 
This holiday season brought audiences several great movie options to
see. Out of all of them, earlier today I believe I shave seen my
favorite. Not War Horse, Sherlock Holmes, Tintin, Mission Impossible,
or Alvin and the Chipmunks. The winner is We Bought a Zoo. Now to be
fair, I haven&#x27;t seen Mission Impossible 4, but despite all the great
things I&#x27;ve heard about it, I don&#x27;t think it will strike a chord with
me like We Bought a Zoo did. It is such an inspirational story with a
powerful message. And it gets quite emotional in several spots. Now I&#x27;m
not an emotional person typically and I&#x27;ve never actually cried in a
movie, but this movie almost broke me. My mom, who cries a lot during
movies, certainly was crying in a few spots, so its a tearjerker.<br /><br />We Bought a Zoo is based on a true story. Specifically the memoir of
Benjamin Mee, which is his story of, as you can guess, him buying a
Zoo. There are some noticeable differences in the movie and in the real
life story as I have looked at it afterwards, but those changes were
adapted only after the approval of Benjamin Mee himself, who still owns
and lives in the Zoo he purchased. In the movie, Benjamin, played by
Matt Damon, is going through some serious family troubles. Namely, his
wife the he dearly loved has just recently passed away which has made
life for his young family really difficult emotionally, especially for
him and his teenage son. Seeking to get away from life a bit, he
decides that he wants to move and falls in love with a certain country
house some 9 miles outside town. Before purchasing it, he quickly
learns that it is a somewhat broken down and struggling Zoo. Despite
his background as an adventurous person, he has no knowledge of
Zoology. However, he decides to take on the task to help renovate and
re-open the struggling Zoo. With that said, yes it is a story about a
Zoo, but telling a story of how a man renovated a Zoo is not the point
of this movie. It is a story of courage. A story about moving forward
in life despite the difficult times. Lastly it&#x27;s a story about
maintaining good relationships with your family and those around you.
There are a few taglines in the movie that really just jumped out at me
that I will remember and use in my own personal life to help me.<br /><br />Now We Bought a Zoo isn&#x27;t without its flaws. There are times when I was
slightly bored with it and times where it seemed to move slow. I wasn&#x27;t
a big fan of some of the acting by several of the more minor
characters. But overall it was a very well done film. The strongest
part of the movie was certainly Matt Damon. He has become one of my
favorite actors recently and in this he gives a very good performance.
If the Academy Awards were up to me, I would give him the Oscar for
best Actor after this performance. I hope he at least gets nominated
because he deserves it. The cast around him was also superb for the
most part. Scarlett Johansson did a great job in the lead female
performance, that being Kelly the lead Zookeeper. Elle Fanning did a
great job acting as one of the younger crew members of the Zoo. Lastly,
Benjamin&#x27;s two kids ages 14 and 7, were done quite well. His 14 year
old son Dylan, played by Colin Ford, even looked and acted like a young
Matt Damon. The score in this movie was absolutely beautiful. It really
made the movie. In my opinion it is one of the best scores of the year.
The cinematography was also great. I especially loved the animal shots
in the movie.<br /><br />In conclusion, We Bought a Zoo is no action-packed, high suspense
adventure movie. If you are looking for that, go check out Mission
Impossible or Sherlock Holmes. What it is is an inspirational family
movie that I really enjoyed. I highly recommend you check it out. I
give it an 8 out of 10.
