2012_February 1 
Benjamin (Matt Damon) has recently become a widower father to this two
children, Dylan and Rosie. Its a struggle, as everyone is still
grieving the loss of their family member and learning to adjust.
Teenage Dylan, especially, is troubled, as he draws creepy pictures and
acts out in school. All too soon, he is expelled. Therefore, Benjamin
decides, over the objections of his accountant brother, Duncan (Thomas
Haden Church) to buy a home on the very outskirts of the Los Angeles
area. Rosie loves the house at first site and so does Benjamin. The
trouble is, however, that the large property is very unique. It has a
small zoo on the premises! Woweee. Yes, there&#x27;s lions and tigers and
one big Grizzly bear, among other animals. The small staff includes
head zookeeper Kelly (Scarlett Johanssen) and her teen niece, Lily
(Elle Fanning). Since Benjamin knows nothing about operating a zoo,
there is much to learn and many bills to pay. Also, although Rosie is
happily residing in the new digs, Dylan is grouchier than ever, for
none of his friends bother to come and visit him and he doesn&#x27;t seem to
want to begin a new friendship with Lily. As money problems, animal
health problems, staff problems, and kid problems pile up one by one,
will Benjamin rue the day &#x22;We Bought a Zoo&#x22;? This is a lovely film for
fans who don&#x27;t need explosions or car chases to entertain them. Its a
sweet, funny story, based on fact, and its beautifully shot. In
addition, the cast is great, playing very genuine and flawed
characters. Damon does a nice dad while Johanssen drops a bit of glam
to play an outdoorsy type, with nice results. Church, especially,
steals scenes easily while the child actors steal hearts just as
smoothly. Then, too, animal lovers will delight in the various
creatures and their antics, although a few tears may fall as well. If
this all sounds like good news to you, then, what else? Go buy a ticket
for a good &#x22;buy&#x22; in family viewing.
