2011_December 6 
I was flicking through the cinema listings on a cold winters day,
wondering what film to take my &#x27;2nd date&#x27; girl to go see. Me being the
unorganised mess that i am, i was doing this only a few minutes before
we were about to meet. As i quickly glazed over the options of Happy
Feet 2 and Arthur Christmas (as although these films may be cinematic
gems, i don&#x27;t think they would help to guarantee a 3rd date) i stumbled
upon The Big Year. As i was now about to be late, i quickly glanced
down at the cast, as previously this has helped in deciding whether it
would be classic or a rotten tomato. A comedy with Steve Martin, Jack
Black and Owen Wilson? This will be hilarious, and she will think i am
hilarious thanks to my excellent film choice, its a date! 1 minute into
the film, i realised i may have made a horrible mistake. Bird Watching?
(or Birding, if you are sad enough to call it that) I should have
realised my mistake before the film had even began, as the screening
was filled with 5 people (two of them being bird fanatics, that bloke
in the corner who goes to showings because he is so lonely and its
something to do.... and us) This film is adapted from the original
story of &#x27;The Big Year: A Tale of Man, Nature and Fowl Obsession&#x27;
written by Mark Obmascik, and like so many films that have been created
from best selling novels, it didn&#x27;t really make for an entertaining
film. If you have an obsession with Birds (as the two birdwatchers
sitting near us who were constantly talking about the amazing birds
they were seeing on screen) then you will like this film. But if you
are like those two, i would suggest watching something narrated by an
Attenborough.<br /><br />Plus points. Some of the wide shots of scenery are quite breath taking,
the comedic acting of Jack Black and Steve Martin, make a terrible idea
for a film bearable to watch. And if you are a birdwatcher (if there
are any left in the world) then i definitely recommend it.<br /><br />Negatives. Some of the long winded bird facts and descriptive scenes
will take your breath away (and by that, i mean your breath will be
taken away from all the sighing of boredom.) The story is too weak for
a feature length film, the ending leaves you feeling empty more than
anything, and it is immediately forgettable (which is why i have chosen
to write this review the morning after the viewing.) All in all, i
would suggest waiting till it comes out on DVD, and then waiting a bit
longer until it appears on Sky before you watch this film. In lighter
news, it got me a third date! I would like to think that is more due to
my witty charm than anything to do with this film though!
