2005_January 13 
I have to admit I loved the first film. It was one of the few films
that I thought best represented the video game that it accompanied.
Milla was perfectly cast as the lead and the non-linear structure of
the film allowed us to see the who, what, where, when, and why of the
events. There was just the right amount of terror, the right amount of
action, and a whole bunch of originality. I wish, I really wish that I
could say the same about it sequel. As the credits rolled and we were
brought back up to speed from the last events that occurred in the
original only to discover that a new director had decided to helm this
project and was obviously handed more money and forced to follow the
footsteps of Hollywood. Everything from the original was lost and
discarded as a mainstream horror film with maybe zombies (couldn't tell
due to the blurry nature of which they ran) moved in to take its place.
More money was on the table with, in this case, meant more explosions
and less story. A disgrace to the name of both the video game and the
original film came in several ways with this inferior sequel, mainly
horrible acting, clich&eacute;d characters, a recycled plot, and especially
with a amateurish, craft sale created monster known as the Nemesis.<br /><br />To begin the characters were very disrespectful to the original. I
remember hearing of this sequel and hoping they would build more on
Milla character, giving her more to work with and more past stories of
her time at the Umbrella Corporation. I was a hopeful viewer who wished
for more deeply rooted characters with many layers, but found the
Hollywood clich&eacute; instead. The entire character known as LJ could have
been eliminated with the greatest of ease and without any remorse. His
lines were the epitome of every other zombie film created while trying
to bring his own game references into a franchise that was doing well
on its own (the GTA line nearly took my rage over the top). Like any
good supporter of films and video games, I don't mind when they bring
in more characters from the series, but let us know who they are first.
There was no introduction to Valentine for those less familiar with the
series other than she knows how to shoot zombies and she was disbarred
from the force (see the writing on the wall). This goes the same for
Carlos, who just wandered through his part without really contributing
anything worth while, and Nicholai, whom I always considered another
villain of the series. Oh well, I guess when tons of Hollywood cash is
being thrown in your direction, you can just go crazy with creativity
and forget the basis of your film. Yet again, who am I to say? Milla
was the only one worth watching in this entire film, and even her
character seemed to be turning to cardboard by the end. It was a sad
change of events for the Resident Evil group.<br /><br />The bad acting was the only trouble with this film, the horrible script
allowed the Hollywood character and plot clich&eacute;s to pour in like the
flood gates had been opened. The wise cracking character that always
has something to say and obscure pop culture references that try to
gain a couple laughs from the audience was present. The no-nonsense
female cop that has a strange past, but finds out that she has the
heart of gold. The corporation boss that is willing to kill everyone
for the sake of science and proves that he has no heart what so ever.
Finally, there is the large overbearing monster that was nothing more
than table scraps of every other Hollywood big budget horror movie,
which discovers the true meaning of Christmas. YUK. Could director
Alexander Witt either not do his homework or just try for once to build
upon the original instead of slicing and dicing. Not just the
characters were clich&eacute;, but also the story. Lines were replaced with
explosions and CGI. Gore replaced the sci-fi element and 1984 Big
Brother moments were just the mother load. Seriously, I would love to
know what happened.<br /><br />I would like to end this review by saying that I laughed at Nemesis the
entire time it was on screen. For any of you that did not, I question
your sanity. The reality, if that is what you want to call it, the
creative imagination of the original was lost when Nemesis made his
screen debut. It was sloppy and cheap. Definitely not something for
Witt to be proud of.<br /><br />Overall, this was not a crowning achievement for the series. The themes
were jumbled mess of save humanity and science is bad. Milla did the
best with what she was handed providing some of the better parts of the
film, but everyone else were just worthless. I hope that the makers of
this film see the error in their ways and the fact that they completely
butchered a great concept. Video games are an amazing source of
imagination, but sometimes when Hollywood money becomes involved, you
get projects like Resident Evil: Apocalypse. I loved the video games,
but after the original, this series needs to tighten up to regain
control.<br /><br />Grade: ** out of *****
