2005_April 22 
With the virus breaking out of the &quot;secure&quot; Hive, the Umbrella
Corporation order Racoon City to be sealed off and isolated &#150; even if
it traps most of the residents inside with the undead infected. The
Corporation's scientists are all evacuated, with the exception of one
who has lost his daughter within the city. He refuses to leave and
turns to the only member of the Corporation's staff still left inside
for help &#150; this person being none other than Alice. Joining a band of
armed survivors, things don't look good with Alice running out of time
- but then the Corporation take the decision, to protect their
stockholders and executives, that the city will be destroyed by a
nuclear strike at dawn. Meanwhile they take the opportunity to release
the Nemesis programme into the city to test its effectiveness.<br /><br />Although the first film was not actually any good, it still did enough
to please those who knew what they were getting into when they sat to
watch it, and enough of the target audience must have gone to see it to
justify a sequel a few years later. Despite clearly having a wider
playpen within the story, film doesn't feel like a massive budget has
been poured into it in some areas. Specifically the plot and dialogue
are pretty weak; the attempt to escape Racoon City has a few things
piled onto it to try and up the ante but none of them really ring true
and it mainly comes off feeling like the narrative was an afterthought.
This is backed up by the poor dialogue and total lack of
characterisation in all areas. Of course if you are target audience for
this film then it seems unlikely that such things will matter to you
and it probably does what you need it to do. There are fights, zombies,
big guns, things going bang and men in monster suits. None of it is
anything special but it is noisy enough for the teenage male target
audience.<br /><br />As with the first film, the theme of the big corporation is not used
that well and, although it is stated how evil the company is, we are
never really given a sense of them in the same way as some other
&quot;sinister forces at work&quot; movies have done. The direction makes it all
look slick enough but forgets to add the horror and tension that it
really should have had. Jovovich is pretty handy but throwing in the
odd scene where she looks angry and hurt over her past is not a
replacement for delivering a character. The rest of the cast are pretty
low rent and make the cast in the first film look better. Guillory is a
&quot;feisty action woman&quot; who looks like she is from the same cookie cutter
that produced Buffy, Charmed, Alias and a hundred others, she does the
basics and no more. Likewise Epps, Fehr, Vavasseur and others just play
their roles without having any real charisma or anything different,
although Epps is actually quite amusing in the outtakes on the DVD!
Overall this did what I expected it to do &#150; it was noisy, uninteresting
and par for the genre course at best. It has an audience of course and
I guess some sections of that will enjoy it but not that many.
