2004_November 4 
This movie amazed me beyond words. The concepts were well used. I felt
energized after seeing this movie on the first day. I know that people
complain about not being scared, but that part is over. We got all of
our scares from the first movie. All that's left is the showdown
between man,mutant, and the powers that be. Alice was superb. As far as
the ending. It left us open to an unnervingly distinct possibility.
Alice will turn evil, and Jill and the others may have to kill her(
which would in the end follow the original scary movie rules that
dictate that the heroine can't survive the second sequel)and Jill as a
result would become the new heroine( which would make the game purists
ecstatically happy). As for Alice taking over, remember, she is the
only surviving team member from the first movie. She demonstrated her
skills as a superb officer without the enhancement procedures.
Naturally, she would be even better as an operative after enhancement.
Remember also, that Jill and the others were relatively new to this.
They may have been aware of a few aspects of T-virus contamination, but
nobody but Alice and the upper echelon knew the true level of the
problem. As far as the brain power, it is a known fact that humans of
average intelligence only use 7% of their brains. Einstein used 33% of
his. Were the T-virus to activate other parts of Alice's brain then
yes, she would have extra-sensory abilities.I mainly enjoyed the fact
that the movie showed us what the T-virus was actually designed to do
through Angie Ashford and Alice Abernathy, instead of it being a
complete mistake that involved disastrous side-effects. As far as Dr.
Ashford becoming a zombie at the end, there is an obvious assumption.
The T-virus worked more efficiently in Angela, and she was able to walk
as a result of implementation. He, also having taken the T-virus, was
not able to walk afterward. Perhaps it was a matter of metabolism.
Compare the exposure and infective transformation rates of Carlos and
Yuri,Alice and Matt, and Rain, Kaplan, and J.T. The movie made perfect
sense and far surpassed its predecessor.*****/*****
