2004_October 22 
Well i have been a BIG fan of Resident Evil since the first game hit
our shores down here in the later 1995 early 1996, The game was fun and
different....to my knowledge it was one of the truly first superior
Horror/survival games created....well at least on the playstation. Then
in 1998 and 1999 two more Resident Evil titles landed it's trade marks
here: those were Resident evil 2 and of course Resident evil:
Nemisis.... These two games were far superior to the already excellent
first game. So i guess you could say i was really thrilled to learn
they were making a movie called : Resident Evil. Sure enough i went too
see it the first day it opened..it didn't really follow any of the
games but that didn't stop me from loving it!! I felt it added like a
new chapter to the resident evil saga.... Then i was to learn of a
sequel not too long after. Now after a year and a half of waiting for
this baby to finally be released down here in Australia all i have to
say is.....It Kik-zombie-non zombie-A$$!! Thats right, i loved the
movie....It follows to some degree both resident evil 2 and 3 plus the
first movie. Which i think is good due to this movie too feels like a
new chapter, i think of it this way....This movie lies inbetween two
and three and adds to the story. Once again Alice (Milla) is the main
star, she has just been set loose to wonder the now decaying streets of
raccon city. But she has been genetically tested on with the T-Virus
making her motive abilities more enhanced e.g she is stronger, runs a
lot more and can fight huge ass creatures hand to hand. Paul WS
Anderson has thrown into the movie some of the character, i assume this
was due to the no character references to the first movie.. I didn't
care either way. Jill Valentine played by (Sienna Guillory) was well
done, it was nice to see jill come alive on screen. Plus there were a
few other characters from game three such as Carlos and Nicholai, and i
feel the little girl was roughly based off of Sherry from game 2.. But
admittedly you can tell that Alice is still the lead in this movie, the
games are about jill, the movies are about alice and i am glad they are
set this way. Then there is the Nemisis that looks totally rad, and
they have kept his design pretty close to the game, his make up looked
cool! The acting was so so but enjoyable, and the plot was thrown at
you fast with a lot of guns, explosions, breaking of necks and zombies.
This movie didn't contain a lot of gore but it didn't seem to really
matter. For this more was Style over Satire and for that i am thankful.
I'm looking forward to part 3 and have high hopes for it as well. For
those who are hardcore game fans like me, this might please you. For
those who are hardcore of the first movie fans....this is sure to
please you. For those who are gore junkies, look else where. For those
who are action freaks, climb aboard this baby. All in all i give this
movie 9.5/10 It rocked, now an instant favourite of mine. P.s i even
dragged my poor old mother along, and she too liked it so i guess it
can't be all that bad then.
