2004_September 13 

Film adaptations of video games have a decidedly mixed life. On the one
hand, they are commercially viable with a built-in audience. On the
other, they are often lifeless, barely more than live action versions
of the games, less films than advertisements. Occasionally, as in &quot;Tomb
Raider&quot;, a fantastic lead can overcome the video game-to-file curse.
Sometimes, the movie separates itself from the game enough to stand on
its own, as in &quot;Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within.&quot; The first &quot;Resident
Evil&quot; had both of these: only a passing resemblance to the wildly
popular game series and a dynamic lead in Milla Jovovich. The success
of the movie spawned a sequel, and as in the video game world, so
often, the sequel is an overly-hyped, rushed-to-production mess like
&quot;Resident Evil: Apocalypse.&quot;<br /><br />The film begins roughly where the first one left off. Alice (Jovovich)
is one of the only survivors of the first movie, having fought her way
thought legions of undead when the nefarious Umbrella Corporation's
experimental T-virus infected hundreds of people. When Umbrella tries
to investigate the events of the first movie, they unwittingly release
the T-virus into the streets of Raccoon City, turning the populace into
slavering zombies hungry for human flesh. Umbrella shuts the city down
to contain the virus, and Alice must fight her way out with the help of
mini-skirted cop Jill Valentine (Sienna Guillory), a small team of
elite soldiers, and a trash-talking common citizen (Mike Epps). Along
the way are obstacles like undead beasts with huge tongues and a giant
mutant named Nemesis.<br /><br />This film is a massive mess of teenage game-boy dreams. The plot is
thin and the characters by and large thread bare. Most come and go so
quickly that you never even get to know their names before they become
a zombie snack. The actors try their best, though, and Jovovich is
always a treat to watch in action. Guillory is also quite effective in
her role as Butt-Kicking Babe #2, making a rather crowd-pleasing
entrance. Epps provides the film's few intentionally funny moments,
while there also fine performances by Oded Fehr and Zack Ward as two of
the soldiers accompanying Alice. Of all the featured players, only
Thomas Kretschmann, as Umbrella's laughably clich&eacute;d Eurotrash
representative, comes off as particularly mediocre.<br /><br />But all the girls-on-zombie action in the world can't save this film
from itself. The film has the quick-cut action scenes and loud, forced
nu-metal soundtrack of a straight-to-video release but the effects
budget of a minor studio release. Indeed, hardly a scene goes by that
isn't punctuated with deafening explosions. Director Alexander Witt,
taking over for video-game-to-film director Paul Anderson (who wrote
the screenplay), has made a cold, hard film lacking any of the
(relative) depth or humanity of the first film. Sure, this film may be
based on a video game, but that's no reason to turn the characters into
automatons. In addition, the film ends with a bizarre and seemingly
arbitrary sequence that will leave most viewers to bang their heads in
frustration...and, of course, opening the door WIDE open for a third
film.<br /><br />What could've been a more action-oriented follow-up to a fine
video-game adaptation has become an incoherent and numb series of
shoot-em-up action, a film so ridiculously conceived that it thinks
nothing of sending its main characters through a graveyard during a
zombie assault. Granted, it's immensely enjoyable to watch the female
leads getting their action hero on, but both Jovovich and Guillory (and
indeed the whole cast) deserve a better vehicle for their acrobatics.
Skip the theatre and just wait for the DVD so you can go right to the
good parts. 5 out of 10.

