2004_October 10 

I remember seeing the trailer to the original Resident Evil and
thinking, 'oh dear, they've really gone and ballsed this one up quite
badly'. On going to see the movie, I left the cinema if not overly
impressed, then at least mildly surprised that director Paul Anderson
had managed to pull one out of his ass to create a reasonably enjoyable
pop corn munching horror flick. My impressions Alexander Witt's sequel,
Resident Evil: Apocalypse, were much the same. <br /><br />Following on almost immediately from the original, the sequel opens
with the monstrous T Virus being let loose from the previous movie's
lab complex into the city above. The movie follows the survivors of the
disaster, including Sienna Guillory's ridiculously attired Jill
Valentine, Oded Fehr's hunky mercenary Carlos Olivera, Mike Epps'
stereotypical black pimp L.J. and of course the only true survivor of
the original movie, Milla Jovovich's zombie beating Alice. Also set
loose in the city is Nemesis, a seven-foot tall mountain of a monster
packing a minigun, a rocket launcher and a bizarre S&amp;M outfit. <br /><br />Pillaging it's inspirations from a number of sources, including Dawn of
the Dead, Resident Evil 2 &amp; 3 and 28 Days Later, it's fair say that
Apocalypse's plot and dialogue are not its strong points. Anderson's
script is at times laughably poor. Lines like 'we're expendable assets,
and we've just been expended' are so horribly clunky that it's hardly
surprising the movie's acting is getting such bad press. The movie's
narrative is equally cumbersome and also badly fractured. It jumps
around constantly in a vain attempt to keep track of multiple plot
threads, never really spending enough time with any one of them to
create any satisfactory pay off at the movie's end and as such there is
little depth to either the story or its characters. There are however
some nice tips of the hat to existing Resident Evil fans, including an
action sequence ripped straight from the opening movie of Code Veronica
and little dig at the games fixed camera perspective.<br /><br />In terms of acting, well I'm sure the actors were doing their best with
what material they had but it might have helped if they had some
slightly more talented performers on board. Milla Jovovich has proved
herself several times in the past, most noticeably to the wider public
as Leeloo in the Fifth Element, but she is miscast here as a tough as
nails, steely eyed zombie slayer. Guillory's Jill is equally awkward as
she tries to pull off a worryingly similar character Alice, all the
time struggling with bad dialogue and an embarrassing costume that
sticks a little too close to Resident Evil 3 for comfort. Fehr's Carlos
has little to do except shoot big guns but at least Epps gets some
surprising mileage of what is essentially a one dimensional comic
relief role. <br /><br />Beyond these faults there are numerous others. Nemesis is quite frankly
an awful monster. Like Jill's costume, his design sits too close to the
game for comfort. Perhaps someone should tell Witt that what looks good
in the stylised environments of computer game does not always transfer
well to the heightened reality of a motion picture and Nemesis is a
case in point. He just isn't scary, looking more like the Toxic Avenger
than any kind of formidable uber mutant. Witt's direction is also
lacking in many areas, particularly in the movie's slower, talkier
moments. For scares (the meat and potatoes of any good horror movie,
even one as action skewed as this) he relies far too much on cheap jump
scares, lurching things unexpectedly into camera with an accompanying
blast of audio. Anderson pulled the same trick in the original movie
but at least managed to pace it a little better. Here Witt succeeds
only in deadening the viewer to it, until even his best attempts don't
even elicit so much as a twitch. His experience as a second unit
director does shine through in his panache with the movie's visual side
however, and he occasionally manages to evoke some surprisingly
effective imagery, so long as Nemesis isn't on screen.<br /><br />Fortunately Apocalypse has two saving graces, it's frenetic pace and
capably handled action. The movie is nothing if not action packed and
here Witt manages to exceed Anderson's handling of similar sequences in
the original while the actors make up for the sleepy performances with
some energetic gun and hand-to-hand fighting. Some sequences are really
quite enjoyable, most notably the trailer moment of Alice running down
a building. At times however, his overly jerky camera work can become
distracting, hampering the viewers ability to see what is going on.
Compared to movies like the recent Bourne Supremacy, Apocalypse is
relatively restrained in this regard however. The movie's adrenaline
fueled progress never lets up and also lends it some much needed energy
that was otherwise in danger of being sapped away by its leaden
dialogue and unoriginal premise.<br /><br />Above all though, Apocalypse manages to be a decidedly passable action
romp through a zombie fueled nightmare city. It may lack Shaun of the
Dead's biting humour, or 28 Days Later's horrific imagery, but it does
succeed in sweeping the viewer through some fun action sequences and
some intermittently pretty photography which in this kind of film is
really all that matters.

