2004_October 12 
The first film received a very mixed reception on release. People
either loved it totally, or despised it, and the criticism levied
towards the director (Paul WS Anderson) was, to be truthful, very
harsh. I kinda liked it. As a fan of the games and also one of the few
fans of Anderson himself, I enjoyed it from start to finish. The ending
of the film hinted at the plot for the sequel, and I couldn't wait.
Well, the wait is over&#133;. The film begins with a quick recap of event so
far, telling us that Umbrella were developing genetic and viral weapons
in their underground labs beneath Racoon C0ity, but something went
wrong. The T Virus was released and the dead began to rise from the
dead. Into this walked Alice, and ex-employee of Umbrella, who at the
end of the first film awoke to find the whole of Racoon City had been
infected. There begins Apocalypse! Alice has been experimented on to
give her enhanced abilities, and soon finds herself leading a rag-tag
bunch of survivors (including Jill Valentine, one of the most popular
characters in the game) to rescue the daughter of Charles Ashford, the
creator of the virus. At the same time the Nemesis experiment is
released to stop her. Cue action scene after action scene, and a film
that just plods along without offering any tension or emotion at all.<br /><br />I was disappointed with the film, not through the story (the concept
and script is well woven by Anderson), but through the acting and
direction, oh and the effects. This is a film with more ambition than
the budget can allow! It is nice to see that the studio is an equal
opportunities employer, but having epileptics manning the camera is a
tad too much! The term used by Empire this month is 'F**king the Frame'
and is a term that defines it perfectly! The camera shakes so much that
keeping up with the action is tricky at the best of times, and tension
is destroyed. Within the first few minutes a jerky, blurred shot is
used to show lumbering zombies and alarm bells rang in my head! 'Are
they just covering up some ropey effects and make-up?' The answer is
yes, and the shots of the 'big bad' Nemesis attain! Why could they not
get a better make-up and effects team! Surely the people who worked on
Buffy and Angel were available&#133;even their effects were better than this
'rubber mask' effect! The overall effect is similar to that other
terrible 'big bad' creation, the Spinosaurus in JP3.<br /><br />The acting, aside from Jovovich, is terrible! Maybe it was paying
homage to the games where the voice acting is diabolical, or maybe the
budget just wouldn't allow them to hire anyone with any talent! If it
was intended as homage&#133;well it was a terrible idea as you just can't
care for the characters. So, the blame for this very average waste of 1
&frac12; hours can't be levied at Anderson. He wrote a decent story. The
problems here can mainly be put down to the director this time, first
timer Christopher Witt, who fails to get any decent results from his
cast, and can't really convey a scene well.<br /><br />Overall a film with far too much ambition! Yes, it would be tricky to
convey a city in chaos without having a lot of action, but perhaps a
bit of tension wouldn't go amiss! Look at Aliens&#133;lots of beasts
attacking, but only a few key action points. Fans will love looking for
the links to the games, but that's about it. Go play the games instead!
