2004_September 11 

I'm a huge fan of the Resident Evil video game franchise and I thought
this movie was horrible. I think that the writer/director of the first
movie did a great job of bringing the story to the big screen. Video
game inspired movies are not the easiest to do, just look at Street
Fighter, House of the Dead, etc. I think it was a HUGE mistake to have
a different director helm this film. To be honest, I don't think it
would have helped this film much if Paul Anderson had directed it
either since he wrote an incredibly stupid script with incomprehensible
plot. I know this is a movie about zombies, but can we please have a
little bit of realism and logic here. Can we at least keep our story
consistent? We understand that the T-virus reanimates dead cells and
that it is protean, it can be borne through the air, etc but how is it
that the dead buried in the cemetery are reanimated? From what I
understand, there was six feet of soil and various man-made
implements(such as a coffin) separating those dead people from the
T-virus. Unlike in the first movie, the air had not been infected with
the virus or everyone alive would have gotten it too. <br /><br />It is an interesting stunt to have Alice running down the side of a
building, but let's answer the question of how in the heck she got up
there in the first place. How about the brilliant disappearing zombies.
A hoard of zombies will be somewhere in one instant and then gone the
next and vice versa. How are they walking about the city for long
periods of time with out seeing even one zombie? What happened to that
large group of people in the beginning who was turned back into the
city at the beginning of the movie? Why would you split up in a
building full of zombies? How did Alice know that the people barricaded
up in the church needed help? Why would she crash through the window
leaving it open for zombies to get in? Why? Why? Why? I could go on and
on, but I think the ultimate question is...Why did this movie suck???<br /><br />I likes the multiple sets, I liked the additional action, I liked the
use of characters from the game. I even appreciated the comic relief
that Mike Epps provided, but the movie was a dudd overall. I gave it
4/10

