

This is a good movie indeed, one of those which make you think. The simple
fact of being a Spielberg film warned me not to take it too seriously,
after
all he's always that dream embodier we all knew in his classics... touching
little aliens, dire tough sharks, smart dinosaurs brought back to life and
so on. Even here we have a stunning portrait of the evil (R.Fiennes really
deserved the oscar he didn't get) but the real Amon Goeth had not a home on
a hill as we can see, and he was arrested in September 44 by SS, then
captured by americans and executed on Sept 46. All in this movie is clearly
intended to make you feel dizzy and touched, this is of course not shifty,
everyone knows this is a tear-jerker but what everyone seems to ignore is
that you need some subterfuges when you aim to involve deeply someone in a
story, and Spielberg knows how to do it, he knows it well, he is a master.
So, here are the expected germans, shown as either monsters or homicidal
robots; a bunch of events of which only the grotesque aspect is fully
portrayed and most of all a movie that openly focalize only on jews, giving
the impression (the same we get at school) that they are the greatest (or
more important) victims of that period, think about people of the former
USSR before answering &quot;well...isn't it?&quot;.
I said it makes you think, personally i had to think when i saw all the
comments here in the IMDb about this film, seems people simply accept it
without any reservation and with tears in their eyes... the power of being
Steven Spielberg! And, most of all, the power of talking about Holocaust!
I'm not a negationist, even though i don't accept blindly the classic
version of history, and i'm definitely not a nazi-sympathizing, but i don't
like hypocrisy and all forms of mass-conditioning, &quot;books say...&quot;
&quot;Spielberg
says...&quot; and everytime an hysterical and irrational commotion. That was a
complicate period, you can't understand it reading a single book or
watching
a movie, anyway, everyone plays the wiseacre and gives his sentence. After
all, i give a good 9/10 for film making, good acting, good directing, good
soundtrack, good all; and 5/10 for pretentious politically correct
intentions, a nice arithmetical 7/10 and life goes on.
