
Steven Spielberg is one of my favorite directors. His films are
passionate, have adventure, style, and all of his films have a gifted
story that keeps you on the edge of your seat. For example, films such
as - Jaws, Jurassic Park, Saving Private Ryan, E.T. the
Extra-Terrestrial, A.I.: Artificial Intelligence, Close Encounters of
the Third Kind - they are all classics and everyone has just about seen
them. And with such talents as his, Schindler&#x27;s List is now my favorite
movie. With so many graphic scenes and so much horror, Schindler&#x27;s List
moves you unlike any other film you have ever seen. For example, the
scene where the kids think they are going somewhere fun, only to be
walking to their deaths, scenes like that move you, and they are all
throughout the film. It&#x27;s visually stunning as in terms of the
Holocaust and is one movie everyone must see to understand the true
horrific nature of the Holocaust. The movie does not show Adolf Hitler
one time, which kind of surprised me, but it does follow an unwealthy
business man, Oskar Schindler (Liam Neeson) who asks Jews to work for
him during the depression in Germany. He treats them nice, because he
does not know what is actually happening to the Jews. Once he sees
numerous murders with his girlfriend on horseback, he hates the idea of
it, but he claims there is nothing he can do. When he is convinced and
he hears the &#x22;worst&#x22; cases of what happens to Jews that are in
Concentration Camps, he makes it his mission to make a list and have
them all work for him, so he can at least save some people. This movie
is truly touching, including the scene where the kids are waving bye on
the bus, and of course the shower scene where you think they are all
going to die, that really surprised me and I nearly cried when they
were about to die and then the showers turned on, and they realized
where they really were. This movie is truly amazing, and it did win
best picture for the Academy Awards, which I am pleased with. I am so
satisfied with Spielberg&#x27;s hard work with this film and his other
successful films. Spielberg is truly a genius, and this film shows it.
