
This film is unexplainable. There are no words to convey how amazing
this film was. Watching this gave me chills, made me shake, cry, and
stare astounded and astonished at the end of it. The Holocaust is
perhaps one of the most shocking and horrific times we will ever learn
about. True, events this like that have occurred before, but this is
the one that everyone knows about, survivors from this event still live
and are able to talk about its terrors. It's beyond most of our
imaginations, the systematic killing of races just because they are
different. To us, it just makes absolutely no sense whatsoever. The
eleven or some say up to twelve million people who were murdered became
victims of a cruel, heartless, callous, and brutal time; an atrocious
idea that it was OK to carry out the &quot;Final Solution.&quot; It was not OK.
The Jews, Gypsy's, handicapped, Slavs, mentally ill, etc; anyone
different from the way the aggressors thought people should be. Anyone
who opposed them went away as well. It is so unheard of. Call me na&iuml;ve,
but everyone is the same. Do we not all laugh, cry, bleed, love&#133;there's
only one race and that's mankind. Hatred and scapegoats leads to
forceful and concentrated suffering. No one should ever have to deal
with that. In my school's One-Act play, we adapted some events from
Schindler's List that made our show even more intense. The black and
white theme is remarkable, and the touch of the little girl in the red
coat is so overwhelming and deep. The authentic and actual landmarks,
the recreation of such images that make us the audience gasp in fear,
and cry out in agony. It felt like we were there, witnessing the fact,
but we couldn't do anything to help them. We were frozen in time, glued
to our chairs, shocked at what was happening on screen. Seeing it on
screen was real enough, imagine witnessing it for real. Something like
that must never happen again. Ever. Oscar Schindler really was a hero
who doesn't get enough credit. I'll bet few people even know his name.
The millions who died are simply martyrs for a cause; a cause of
loyalty to one's faith, family, friends, and a deep devotion to never
surrender. We could all learn something from this movie. Generosity
goes a long way. Thousands of people are alive today just b/c of Oscar
Schindler and the millions of victims and survivors who never gave up.
That movie is the only one that has ever made me cry; it is just so
powerful...
