
Schindler's List is a profound film that gives an eye opening look at
one of the darkest, most despicable periods of the 20th century, the
Halocaust. It unflinchingly tells the story of 1,100 Jews, who, when
millions upon millions of their brethren were systematically murdered
by the Nazis, survived, due to the actions of a greedy businessman.
Steven Spielberg definitively proved his talents to the world when he
made this film. No longer was he merely a sap-seller who made visually
stunning summer films about alien landings, swashbuckling
archaeologists, and sadistic Semi Trucks. He proved he could direct a
harrowing, serious film which from every corner oozes artistry. I can't
tell how much I love the fact that the film is in black and white. The
medium works perfectly in presenting this grim time many of us only
know of in shocking old photographs. More brilliant still are the
sporadic uses of color. Much has been said about the moment when Oscar
Schindler watches a young girl in a red dress walk quietly through the
horror of the Krakow Liquidation, but not as much has been noted about
my favorite instance of color. In the first scene, a Jewish family is
gathered around a table to observe the Sabbath. The Father reads a
prayer, and the camera slowly moves in on the candles on the table as
the family fades out of the scene and color slowly dissipates. Soon,
only the orange flame of the candles are in color, and they are soon
extinguished. This, to me, represents the hope that was snuffed out by
the Nazis during the Halocaust. Later in the film, Oscar Schindler, at
his new artillery factory, allows some of the Jews to observe the
Sabbath. They too gather around a candlelit table to read a prayer, and
the flames of the candle glow orange; now that these Jews are safe,
this is hope for them again. The performances are fantastic. I both
applauded and scolded Liam Neeson as the alternatively brave and
selfish Oscar Schindler, seethed with anger at Ralph Fiennes as the
detestable SS Officer Amon Goeth, and felt immense pity for Ben
Kingsley as the sorrowfully noble Itzhak Stern. Of course one of my
favorite things about the film is the music. Not the traditional
plagerized pomposity of John Williams earlier scores, the music for
this film is carried by a gentle, sorrowful melody, often played by
master violionist Ithzak Perlman. This is a film I believe all should
see. Schindler's List will, hopefully, open your eyes to the immense
evil that man carried out against his fellow man during the Halocaust.
