
Schindler&#x27;s List is based on the novel Schindler&#x27;s Ark by Thomas
Keneally and on a true story about a German factory worker, Oskar
Schindler, who is a member of the Nazi party and due to his decreasing
number of employees, employs the Jewish residents in his factory.
Schindler&#x27;s List explores the true dark side of the Second World War.
Unlike most World War Two based movies, Schindler&#x27;s List is based on
the Holocaust; the cruelty of the Jews during the period. The film is
also a history lesson; it explores all the years of the war; starting
from 1939, the start of the war, to the very end, although the main
focus is Oskar Schindler whose actor is Liam Neeson (Star Wars Episode
1: The Phantom Menace, A-Team movie). The character, not only is
represented as a womanizer and laid-back, but he is obviously the odd
one out; he does not see the Jews as bad people unlike the other Nazis
and because it is his job to employ factory workers, cannot resist
temptation in saving the Jews from the camps, where the Jews are
imprisoned. This shows the message that working on the evil side is the
only way to rescue innocent people, which is what would have occurred
during a brutal era like World War Two. This is why the film deservedly
won the Academy Award for Best Picture. John Williams&#x27; incredible score
links very well with the German Jewish culture, but also represents
sadness and bleakness in the story, because it tempts the viewers to
feel sympathy for the Jews. The black and white tone also suggests the
darkness of the story, but also links with the 1940s setting when most
films used the colour tone. Even if it looks older than other nineties
movies, Schindler&#x27;s List was definitely a modern film; for one reason,
the film combines black and white with colour; the first shot
consisting of a group of Jews paying respects to Oskar Schindler is
filmed using colour and the viewer will easily spot a tiny amount of
colour during one of the crowd scenes. Another reason is due to the
following actors in the film; Ben Kingsley (Gandhi, Thunderbirds movie)
who plays Ishaak Stern, Ralph Fiennes (Wallace &#x26; Gromit In The Curse Of
The Were-Rabbit) as Amon Goth and Caroline Goodall (Hook) the actress
of Emilie Schindler. Schindler&#x27;s List was directed by Steven Spielberg
who won an Oscar for Best Director and is considered one of his best
works ever. It proves that Steven does not just direct thrilling
adventure movies!
