

Schindler's list is not a bad film per se - Liam Neeson is very good as
Schindler and if you edit out some of the more overblown scenes - the
story
is still riveting. Yet it could have been so much more if the story just
told simply and if the central theme were fully understood and
developed.<br /><br />Before the war Schindler and his friend, Goeth were boozy, flirtatious
German businessmen. Both would have likely been uninspired failures had
there been no war. In a kinder world, Goeth's and Schindler's moral
differences might have manifested themselves in the size of the tip that
they would leave the barmaid. In war, the consequences of moral choices
are
greatly magnified, resulting in Schindler becoming a most unlikely heroic
figure, and Goeth becoming a loathed prison commandant. In the film,
Spielberg elevates Schindler to sainthood status and portrays Goeth as a
sadistic psychopath. By sanitizing Schindler's many faults (boozing,
gambling, womanizing...) and by demonizing Goeth, Spielberg severs our
connection with them and, ironically, blunts the conflict between them.
Adolf Eichmann was far more chilling than Charles Manson. Unlike Manson,
whom we could dismiss as psychotic, Eichmann was the faceless functionary
that we have all experienced, whose defense of &quot;following orders&quot; is one
that we have all heard, a defense that was used by many during the war,
and
one that we might see ourselves using under similar circumstances had we
not
Schindler's courage. By making Schindler a saint, Spielberg diminishes
both
his accomplishment and his inspiration to us - saints have no problems
making the right decision - the rest of us do. Rather than a gaping chasm,
there is but a fine moral line between Schindler and Goeth - one that we
tread every day, which fortunately for us, rarely does more than
determines
a barmaid's salary.<br /><br />Spielberg does not develop this simple theme, preferring to impress us
with
a grandiose view of a great moral tale. Instead, he comes off as the
underskilled sous-chef drowning a wonderful filet mignon in an overly rich
sauce. The quality of the ingredients still shine through despite the
clumsy
handling but does not approach its great potential. In the end, the best
thing about the film is that it reminds Americans of a monstrous event in
history. It is unfortunate that this reminder is necessary and that it
reduces such a timeless parable to a useful public service
announcement.
