
In 1942, a German Nazi named Oskar Schindler developed a business, in
Krakow, Germany. It was managed by a Jewish man, Itzchak Stern, and
populated hundreds of working Jews. One day, the workers and the living
Jews in the ghetto were overruled by invading Nazis, led by Amon Goeth.
They were evacuated and taken to a concentration camp near the ghetto.
Devastated by the loss of workers, Schindler demanded to Goeth that his
workers be released immediately. But not so; Goeth told Schindler that
the Jews were to remain in the camp. Determined, and self-willed,
Schindler opened a business near the camp, and made a list of Jews that
could work there. The list was only meant for a couple hundreds, but
eventually became a list with one thousand and eleven Jew names on it.
The Jews were shipped out, and worked until the end of the war.
Afterwards, at midnight the day World War II was strictly declared
over, Stern and some friends made a letter of evidence that Schindler
was innocent, and a ring out of a Jew's tooth, with the words &quot;Whoever
saves one life, saves the world entire&quot; inscribed on the side. It was
at exact moment that Schindler learned that not only did his factory
become successful, it saved the lives of Jewish victims. <br /><br />This is a beautiful yet horrifying crafted movie about the terrible
Holocaust. It is a very well-done picture, with fantastic
cinematography-all done in black and white-, flawless acting, and a
powerful score. Liam Neeson plays Oskar Schindler, showing the kindness
yet fierceness of the man who was considered a 'savior.' Ben Kingsley
is wonderful as the Jewish assistant, Itzchak Stern. But the most
recognizable performance of the cast is Ralph Fiennes, who is
incredible as the root of all evil, Amon Goeth.<br /><br />The story is incredible all in itself, and it contains such
mind-blowing images, text, and sounds. Spielberg used his directing
skills very well, showing audiences the real horrors and incredible
sadness through these elements. Such complex things are heart-wrenching
to imagine, but not even this film can display the Holocaust. This film
shows only but a pinprick of the evils of this senseless massacre. <br /><br />Notable scenes are the liquidation of the Ghetto, the children escape,
and, most of all, the heartbreaking close-to-the-end scene. The final
scene is emotional, because you see the 'Schindler Jews', along with
the actors that played them, place rocks on the grave of Schindler. And
the last person, whom is only but a shadow to us, places a red rose in
the middle.<br /><br />I cannot tell you the incredible and durable sadness I felt as I
watched this film, but it made me realize that even ordinary people can
save lives. I recommend that everyone should see this; it really is
more than a regular film. It is a masterpiece.
