
What makes this film truly remarkable is the personal transformation
which Oskar Schindler under goes just past the mid-point of the movie
in a series of incredibly subtle scenes. Early on, Schindler is driven
only by selfish desire for money, women and influence. Others may
benefit from his actions, but it is purely a by-product. Never does he
help someone to his own detriment. He narrowly rescues Itzhak Stern
from a train to a death camp and then scolds him, saying &quot;If I had been
five minutes later, then where would I be?&quot;. But by the end of the
movie, Schindler willingly loses all his personal wealth and repeatedly
risks his life in order to save others. The inflection point takes
place at a meeting between Schindler and Stern at the Plaszow work
camp. It&#39;s night and Oskar leaves a Nazi party to see his accountant.
At the end of a brief conversation Stern says &quot; Don&#39;t let things fall
apart. I worked too hard for this&quot;. He is pleading with Schindler to
take personal responsibility. As Stern walks away a search beacon
shines over his shoulder and fills the screen with a blinding white
light. The camera cuts to Oskar. He is engulfed by the light. He smiles
of deep satisfaction. This sets off an amazing sequence of scenes: -
Schindler comes to the aid of a metal presser. - He gives protection in
his factory to a traumatised boy, despite the fact that he has no
skills. He gives up his own silver lighter and cigarette case to make
these two events happen. - He comforts Amon Goeth&#39;s abused maid. They
sit beneath a cone of white light. At a point where he could easily
take advantage of her, instead he helps her renew her will to survive.
- In a discussion with Goeth after a party, he explains that true power
comes not from control or the ability to kill, but the ability to
forgive. This could be further interpreted as &quot;Success in life comes
not from pursuing personal gain, but from rising above it&quot;. Goeth is
amused and intrigued by this but in the subsequent tragic &quot;bath tub
stain&quot; scene, we see that he is pathetically incapable of internalizing
anything that was said. - In perhaps the most powerful scene of the
film, a women comes to Schindler and begs that he take her skilless,
aged parents into his factory to save their lives. He appears from on
high at the top of a long stair case. She tells him &quot; No one ever dies
here. It is a haven. They say that you are good&quot;. One can easily
substitute the word &quot;heaven&quot; for &quot;haven&quot; and &quot;God&quot; for &quot;good&quot;. In rage,
Schindler throws her out. But then he goes to see Stern. He tells Stern
that there is good in all people but that war brings out the worst in
them. He uses this to rationalize and forgive the behavior of Goeth. We
fully expect that he will now use this to rationalize his own selfish
behavior. Instead he takes the watch from his own wrist and gives it to
Stern to use to buy the lives of the two elderly parents. The irony is
that war has borough out good in Schindler that might never have
emerged otherwise. From here on out Schindler performs a continuous
series of selfless acts. Moreover,despite the huge personal risks he
takes, we feel good about the choices he makes and therefor we are
transformed a little bit, along with him.
