

In general, I do not rate Spielberg all that highly, primarily because
of his history of big-budget garbage like ET and Jurassic Park - movies
that appeal to the most base aspects of humanity - but I think that he
redeemed himself with this movie. Firstly, if I were to be a cynic, I
would say that the choice of the Holocaust as a setting for a drama
that would establish Spielberg's artistic credentials is a little too
obvious. I am not going to be a cynic, however, but instead will share
a couple of thoughts that I have about the story. What I find is the
most significant aspect of the movie is the way the character of Oskar
Schindler fits nicely between his initial role as a war-profiteer
through to his eventual role as a local saviour. <br /><br />What I am saying here is that the ambiguity which a number of you have
expressed regarding the character of Schindler can be answered quite
succinctly whilst simultaneously demonstrating that Spielberg had not
established a character whose 'virtue' was defined at the outset and
which was exposed to the evils of the Nazis. The most important details
about Schindler are that he was a cynical, exploitative, manipulative
opportunist who always kept his real motives hidden from others. We see
glimpses of this in his relationship with his wife, and the
introductory scene where he essentially establishes his Nazi
support-base by presenting himself as someone who he is not, but,
through a convincing performance, as a confident, wealthy and important
businessman (which he was not at that time). Combine this with his
tactical resourcefulness in securing the capital for his enamel factory
from a couple of wealthy Jews and his entrance into the Jewish
underground market, and we see that Schindler cements his position in
the movie as a man of power through the use of cynical, selfish
methods. The moral complexity of Schindler, however, comes when he uses
exactly the same methods to secure the lives of his workers. If he had
not been the cynic as I described, there would have been no way for him
to secure a position in which he would have been able to save the
workers. <br /><br />So for those who may have some qualms regarding Schindler as a man, the
lesson is that the very vices that he had were precisely the reason why
he was able to do what he did. To place this in the wider context of
the Holocaust, what we learn through the movie is that in a situation
that is so incredibly dire and hopeless, normal understandings about
morality and virtuous character have no application. A genuinely 'good'
man would have been powerless to resist the Nazi deathmachine; only a
'bad' man like Schindler would ever have been able to find a place
within that climate to do what needed to be done to resist the
genocide. This exploration of the dual-nature of vice, being
reprehensible under ordinary circumstances (the fact that he was a
failure before and after the war) but absolutely essential to do good
in exceptional circumstances is, I believe, one of the most significant
lessons that Spielberg portrayed in &quot;Schindler's List&quot;. It was
certainly a relief from the usual wholly good heroes that Spielberg
seems to love in his other movies. Bravo.

