
Without a shadow of a doubt, Schindler&#39;s List is the finest film
Spielberghas ever made; it is also, comfortably, the most important and
is a movie everybody should make an effort to see, not just because of
it&#39;s quality as a film but because of the message it carries with it.
Everyone must surely now know the basis of the film - war profiteer
OskarSchindler, a Nazi party member, works to save the lives of over a
thousand Jews during the Holocaust, risking his own life in doing so.
It is a story that, told incorrectly, could have been overly
sentimental or that could have failed to make the points it needed to
make about the Holocaust.Instead, it is told so well, it transcends the
boundaries of it&#39;s media and has become both a vital historical
document, cataloging the terror of the Nazis in a way everyone can
understand, and a salient warning for our future. The strength of the
film lies in the fact that it makes no attempt to preach to the person
watching it. The primary characters are painted in shades of Grey.
Schindler is a womanizer, a drinker, a profiteer who seemingly puts
money before morals much of the time. He laughs and jokes with Nazis,
including the primary villain, Plaszow commandant Amon Goeth,who
himself is never presented as entirely evil. Throughout, the viewer is
presented with a document of the actions of the characters and left to
make up their own mind. Spielberg shot the film in black and white,
often using hand-held cameras,to give it the appearance of a
documentary, and it works. Coupled with the realities of the
characters, and the fact that Spielberg neither draws back from the
brutality of the Nazis nor uses the script to preach about it, this
gives the film &quot;the ring of truth&quot;. One of the hardest things in
film-making is to take the truth, make no major changes to it and then
make it believable on the screen; here Spielberg succeeds in this
totally. The central performances in the movie are immense. Liam
Neeson, RalphFiennes and Ben Kingsley give utterly convincing
performances in the lead roles and the scenes where they appear with
each other pin the film together and carefully chart the development of
Schindler&#39;s sympathies.They are the final link in a film that has no
weaknesses. This is a dark film though - how could it be otherwise with
it&#39;s subject matter? It is upsetting and deeply moving and anybody who
watches can&#39;help but be changed in some way. The emotional climax of
the film, in Auschwitz itself, is one of the most harrowing scenes ever
put on celluloid. Spielberg handles the ending wonderfully as well,
avoiding cloying sentimentality but still managing to provide some hope
after all the darkness that has come before. The final scene, involving
some of the people Schindler saved, is profoundly moving. If you
haven&#39;t seen this film and are considering buying it, do so. Quiteaside
from the fact that this is one of the finest movies ever to come out of
Hollywood anyway, it also stands alongside books like 1984 and
TheGrapes of Wrath, and films like The Battle of Algiers, as
being&quot;entertainment&quot; that is far more important than the genres which
spawned them. The 2-disc set is beautifully packaged, and somehow this
seems important for once. There is a deeply moving documentary included
featuring interviews with survivors from Schindler&#39;s List. The transfer
of the film to DVD is excellent as well - clear, bright and smooth. The
choice of starting point for the second part of the film on the second
DVD is also well made and poignant. For those who wish to further their
knowledge of history&#39;s darkest hour,the best starting place is Martin
Gilbert&#39;s book The Holocaust. Alsorecommended are Primo Levi&#39;s books If
This Is A Man, The Sixth Day and IfNot Now, When; Roman Polanski&#39;s film
The Pianist and, in music, Gorecki&#39;s3rd symphony and Shostakovich&#39;s
Babi Yar. Equally important is another Martin Gilbert book, The
Righteous, which catalogers the actions of some of the 17,000 other
people so far recognized by the Council of Yad Vashemin Israel as
righteous people who risked their lives to save Jews during the
Holocaust. All these works help further tolerance and understanding,as
does Schindler&#39;s List and that, surely, is the film&#39;s greatest credit
and testimony.
