

First of all, for those of you that critique this film for it's
cinematic purposes, you may be right in your critiques, but maybe that is
not the point.  Spielberg is one of the best directors of all time, and
although he is not the best, he can do something extremely important:
display the purposes and stories of cinema to a generation that struggles
with the concept of film for a purpose.  Although there may be better
directors, thier masterpieces are pretty much wasted on the new (any my)
generation.  I cannot stress enough how important it is to keep
meaningfull
cinema alive and in the public's eye.<br /><br />Now on to the story, that's right the story not the movie.
Obviously
great acting and the reality of this tale made this movie great, but what
made this a masterpiece was the plain balls shown by Spielburg to produce
such harsh reality to the American, and worldwide, public.  Obviously
Schindler is portrayed as a hero, even though his historical prospective
was
mixed between hero and a man in the right place to have a change in
heart.<br /><br />Yet I find Spielburg the real hero here.  You can not underestimate
the service he has done to society by preserving this tale that reminds us
how important the lessons of WWII are to our society, and how the real
trajedy would be to forget.  After all, many have tried to take over the
world, many wars have been wages, and millions have been wrongfully and
ruthlessly killed.  The only reason for repitition is that we forget the
lessons these awful spots in the history of mankind.  Truely if the moral
lessons from this story, and the war are preserved, it would be an
unprecidented victory for mankind.  Imagine....  John Lenon wasn't
dillusional, he just knew his history.<br /><br />Spielburg, who is a great director, I now see as a great man, for I
cannot over-emphasize the importance of this tale that he re-tells.
Truely,
Spielburg is a hero in his choice of tale here.  One more note, the only
way
this movie would go to waste is if you did not see it.  This is a must-see
for anyone with half a brain and even a quarter of a brain.
