2004_October 17 
Derek Zoolander is the top male model, a position he has held for many
years but things look tight with the rising talents of Hansel McDonald.
Faced with competition the likes of which he has never faced before,
Derek becomes open to suggestion and willing to take actions beyond his
normal realms. With the cracks showing in Zoolander's career, top
designer Mugatu decides that the time is right to use Zoolander in a
cunning plot to assassinate the Prime Minister of Malaysia in order to
stop the introduction of child labour laws.<br /><br />At the time of release I didn't bother with this film because I had
suffered at the hands of SNL spin offs before and wasn't sure about
this. However since then I have enjoyed many of the other films from
the same group involved in this and decided (with the help of a
girlfriend) that it was time to step back and give this one a try. With
no previous knowledge of the character I was able to come to the film
as a spoof set around the (admittedly easy) target of male modeling.
With this one joke being the basis for the film it was important that
they get at least a vague plot to prevent it being just a stretched
sketch but also that they keep the laughs coming to cover any holes
left by the former. In both regards the film pretty much succeeds, only
occasionally appearing stretched or too silly to be really that funny.
The plot is daft of course but it sets up enough structure to just
about hold the silliness together. If the character is a simple spoof
of a male model then the plot attacks wider issues such as the pompous
nature of the people involved and the use of child labour (funny but
also a valid point). It may be a bit silly but it works within the
frame of this type of humour.<br /><br />Fans of the recent Dodgeball and Anchorman will enjoy this although
those that disliked those will likely hate this because it is the same
breed of silly humour that those have. I found it funny and it had
enough going on to keep me amused as well as taking me by surprise
several times and making me laugh out loud. The cast is a big part of
this, although the overuse of cameos is a bit of a weakness because
'unusual' celebrities have a bigger impact if used sparingly and
appearing from nowhere (eg Hasselhoff and Norris in Dodgeball). Stiller
is good in his one-joke role and does enough to keep it interesting and
funny. Wilson plays the usual character he plays but does it well &#150; he
is a big part of padding out the plot and making another thread. Taylor
has her usual straight role but gets some of the humour too. Ferrell is
his usual wonderful self in a minor role but one has to wonder why
regular Vaughn bothered. Jovovich is a smart bit of casting and is
pretty good while Jerry Stiller will draw big laughs from all Seinfeld
fans! The cameos are mixed &#150; Duchovny is hilarious, Voight is good,
Bowie was a surprise and Zane sends himself up well. The rest of the
cameos merely fill up the film and while most are interesting additions
I really could have done without yet more self-promotion from the likes
of Paris Hilton and Lil' Kim.<br /><br />Overall this is a silly but funny comedy that will appeal to those who
have been won over by the silly laughs in other films from the same
group. At times this is a bit too silly to be really funny but mostly
it gets the pitch right and is funny and silly with good turns from the
main cast members. The one-joke character may seem a bit stretched at
times but generally it works well enough as a film &#150; just not a great
one!
