2001_October 1 
<br /><br />     Perhaps one of the main reasons a person can be disappointed in
'Zoolander'  is due to the high expectations of star/Director Ben Stiller. I
have been a fan of Stiller since his early films including his funniest
picture 'Flirting with Disaster' and on his TV series. In this film, Stiller
returns to the Director's chair after directing the superb yet misunderstood
'The Cable Guy'
     One could say Zooolander can also be a misunderstood film. In this
film, there is no subtle, dark comedy as in 'The Cable Guy'; only pure 
laughs in the midst of the weirdest plot since the original 'Ace Ventura'
film. The story is constructed around the villain Mugatu. He is a clothes
designer with the most outlandish sense of style; here played by Will
Ferrell. 
     In a  nutshell, the plot goes like this: Mugatu's clothes are made in
Malaysia where he relies on child labor to make a large profit. When
Malaysia has a new President who vows on banning this form of labor, Mugatu
hires Stiller's Zoolander character to brainwash him  into assassinating the
President at the next Fashion Show. 
     Stiller plays the  male super model who is seemingly at the end of his
career; thus tempting him to take the job. 'Zoolander' is surrounded with
great actors such as Stiller, Ferrell and the Fantastic Owen Wilson
(Armageddon, Meet the Parents). Wilson plays Hansel; the new super model who
forces Zoolander into seclusion after a botched awards show that serves as
the catalyst for the end of Zoolander's career - A great
scene.
     At the beginning of the critique I stated that perhaps one of the main
reasons for being somewhat disappointed in Zooolander is the level of
anticipation I had for this film. After a wretched summer movie season, I
told myself I had to wait until the 28th of September to have a hard laugh.
And while the laughs are plentiful, I must admit; they are quite
forgettable.
     Stiller conveys the egocentricity of his Zoolander character
tremendously, and his supporting cast including cameos from David Duchovny,
Lenny Kravitz, Fabio and Winona Ryder all add to the laughs in this funny
yet seemingly empty film. It reminds me unfortunately of a string of comedic
scenes strung together in a comedic fashion. And while the film is funny,
warm and gives you that feel-good 'shot' at the end - it could have been so
much more. 
     The main drawback to this film is that it falls into that category
where every hero goes back to his roots to rediscover themselves after
failed attempts. This is no exception - after Zoolander is not the male
model of the world he goes back to Jersey where his father Jon Voight is a
coal  miner and disowns him once again. Thus of course  forcing Zoolander to
try again and prove himself to be the best and unknowingly save the
President. All this of course with the help of a female (Stiller's real life
wife Christine Taylor)  who of course - they fall in love. This film caters
to all the past cliches in  other comedic  films yet still manages to remain
fresh by showing us a truly comedic glimpse into the fashion world.<br /><br />     Despite its' tackiness and emptiness, one will find Zoolander a good
laugh that is disappointing in terms of its' ability to remain constant and
enjoyable. Some scenes have no place yet others shine, showing the audience
that there is an imbalance within the film, but hopefully we won't notice.
Unfortunately we do, and no matter how many cameos, we still notice these
flaws that turn the film into one to watch at a  'cheapie night' at the
movies. A good laugh, yet unfortunately nothing more.
    
Giancarlo's Rating: **
