2001_October 21 

Derek Zoolander is stupid. So is his movie. But by no means, is Zoolander
humorless.
Directed by and starring Ben Stiller, Zoolander is a very funny movie, if
you know what to expect.
Based on a character that Stiller created for the 1996 VH1 Fashion Awards,
Derek Zoolander was originally intended to satirize the fashion industry.
The movie does no less and as a result, has received some very negative
patron reviews. Audiences went into Zoolander expecting another Ben
Stiller,
Meet the Parents-type comedy, and when they got an offbeat movie about the
fashion industry's plot to assassinate the prime minister of Malaysia,
they
didn't know how to react. To enjoy Zoolander, one has to forget all
expectations and see the movie for what it is supposed to be: ridiculous.<br /><br />Derek Zoolander (Stiller) is the fashion industry's number one male model,
but his career is slouching and boy beauty Hansel (Owen Wilson) provides
tough competition. Fashion designer Mugatu (Will Ferrell) takes advantage
of
this and Zoolander's stupidity, and brainwashes him to kill the Malaysian
prime minister, after he put an end to vital fashion industry
sweatshops.
The talented cast and an excellent soundtrack add absurdity to the already
farcical plot. Zoolander gives both Ferrell and Wilson the opportunity to
do
what they do best. For Saturday Night Live's Ferrell that is embracing and
developing the demented, while for Meet the Parents' Wilson, it is the
chance to play a comedic, confident, character role. Stiller's father and
wife also appear in supporting roles, with Jerry Stiller as Maury
Ballstein,
Derek's agent, and Christine Taylor as Matilda Jeffries, a TIME magazine
reporter. Jerry Stiller, like Wilson, always manages to find humor in
every
role he plays, and in Zoolander this remains especially true. Taylor,
being
a veteran of the Brady Bunch movies, is not stranger to satire
either.
Well-chosen and placed music adds laughs and heightens the tone and feel
of
the movie. With songs ranging from Wham!'s `Wake Me Up Before You Go Go'
playing as cruising music for Derek and his male model friends, and
Michael
Jackson's `Beat It' as the background music for a face-off between Derek
and
Hansel, any remaining seriousness is diminished.
And yet even more surprise and absurdity is added by the many unexpected
cast members and cameo appearances. Others appearing in Zoolander include
David Duchovny, Jon Voight, Vince Vaughn, Andy Dick, David Bowie, Cuba
Gooding Jr., Winona Ryder, and even Ralph Lauren's own male model, Tyson
Beckford.
I can understand people disliking this movie; it is temperamental. This is
the kind of movie that varies depending on the audience and a person's
expectation. Generally though, if you keep an open mind and realize that
it
is not meant to be serious in any way, your view of the movie shouldn't go
anywhere but up.
Zoolander is absurd, ridiculous, and overall, an incredibly stupid movie.
I
suggest you see it.<br /><br />
