2001_October 6 

The complex world of the male modeling profession, including the inherent
rivalries and the significant impact the industry has had on history is
explored and revealed in `Zoolander,' a brilliant comedy directed by and
starring the versatile Ben Stiller.  With chiseled features that bespeak
the
best of Michelangelo, as well as an arsenal of three `looks,' preeminent of
which is the riveting `Blue Steel,' Derek Zoolander (Stiller) is poised to
win the coveted VH-1 Male Model of the Year Award for an unprecedented
fourth year in a row.  But this year-- for the first time-- he has a rival,
a newcomer, who just may be able to usurp his title:  the charismatic and
popular Hansel (Owen Wilson), who-- with chiseled features of his own-- has
burst upon the scene only this year and threatens to steal Zoolander's
thunder in one fell swoop.  And as if this wasn't enough for the seemingly
(until now) invulnerable Zoolander to have on his vapid mind, a reporter
for
Time Magazine, Matilda Jeffries (Christine Taylor-- Stiller's real-life
wife), has written an in-depth article about him in which the true nature
of
the man behind the Adonis is objectively and succinctly revealed, and it's
scheduled to hit the streets the week of the Awards.  Suffice to say it's a
full plate for Derek Zoolander, male model, who-- unbeknownst to him-- has
yet an even greater personal vexation awaiting, which involves a sinister
plot and the Prime Minister of Malaysia.  The Prime Minister of Malaysia?
And what-- you may ask-- does that have to do with the male modeling
profession?  Well, it's just that kind of movie...<br /><br />Like a toothless attack dog that suddenly lunges at you and chomps down on
your elbow, `Zoolander' has a harmless bite that will grab your attention
immediately and refuse to let you go.  And like that dog it will continue
to
gum your elbow until it tickles your funny-bone and you become helpless to
do anything other than pet it on the head and want to take it home with
you.
That's the effect of Stiller's film.  It's an hilarious excursion through
a
world in which glitz, glamor and good-looks are the commandments by which
to
live, and one-on-one `walk-offs' and break dance fighting are the realities
which mask a degree of shallowness that is nearly unfathomable.  All of
which Stiller delivers in his own inimitable style, with subtle nuance and
an instinctive sense of comedy that really makes this satire work.  No
one--
with the possible exception of Albert Brooks-- can set up a comedy and put
it across as effectively as Stiller, who always plays it straight and never
fishes for `cheap' laughs.  What he gives you is the real deal, and it's
classic.<br /><br />In Derek Zoolander, Stiller has created a character who manifests the
myriad facets, ironies and idiosyncrasies of pop culture, offering a
perspective that allows us to laugh, not only at Zoolander, but at
ourselves, as well.  And such a perspective is a rare and welcomed gift;
for
too often matters of insignificance are taken too seriously by too many,
and
it is at such times that we need a Zoolander among us to dispel the
complexities we foist upon ourselves and to negate the self-imposed burdens
that keep us in thrall to the most trivial things in life.  Zoolander holds
up a mirror and points out the furrow in your brow that simply doesn't have
to be there.  Stiller is a truly gifted artist who can make you laugh,
think
and feel good about yourself all at the same time.  But like Chaplin and
Fields before him, it will undoubtedly-- and unfortunately-- be some time
before his true genius is widely and sufficiently recognized.<br /><br />Owen Wilson, as well, is a talented actor/writer/performer who has
demonstrated his own unique style in such films as `Bottle Rocket,'
`Shanghai Noon' and `Meet the Parents,' and here makes Hansel the perfect
counterpart of Derek Zoolander.  Hansel is the flip side of the same coin
that carries the likeness of Zoolander; so different, yet cut from the same
cloth.  And, like Stiller, Wilson plays it straight, with a subtle delivery
that is entirely effective.  He and Stiller, in fact, are possibly the
greatest comed-team-who-aren't-a-team in the history of the movies.  Wilson
has the driest delivery this side of Gene Wilder, his timing is perfect and
his quirky looks and the timbre of his voice give him a veritably
captivating screen presence.  He brings Hansel to life with facility, and
makes him a memorable character.<br /><br />The supporting cast includes Will Ferrell (Mugatu), Jerry Stiller
(Ballstein), Milla Jovovich (Katinka), Matt Levin (Archie) and features
cameos by David Duchovny, Cuba Gooding Jr., Lenny Kravitz, Vince Vaughn,
Jon
Voight, Billy Zane, Natalie Portman, Winona Ryder, David Bowie, Andy Dick
and Fabio.  Already the second-greatest cult film of all time (behind
Stiller's `Mystery Men'), `Zoolander,' like Stiller himself, is destined to
be initially under appreciated, but in time will be recognized as the
comedic masterpiece that it is.  It's entertaining and funny, at times
dark,
but never offensive; and it's the kind of film that gets even better with
repeated viewings.  A true classic that will endure the test of time, this
film is what the magic of the movies is all about, and one you do not want
to miss.  I rate this one 10/10.            
