2002_March 30 

&quot;Zoolander&quot; is a stupid, silly, ridiculous farce that has to be accepted for
what it is.  It's a harmless comedy with no hilarious moments, but it's
funny to a degree.  The problem is most of the time I found myself laughing
AT the film, rather than with it.  There's very little wit, and you simply
have to laugh at Derek Zoolander's sheer stupidity.  The plot is meandering,
and seems to purposely set itself up for a million cameos.  Don't get me
wrong, the cameos are amusing, but it seems like Stiller was taking cheap
shots by inserting big-time celebrities into every scene.  And I'm not
exaggerating when I say this film is jam-packed with cameos.  Hell, if you
made &quot;It's a Mad Mad Mad World&quot; into a 90-minute feature, you very well
might get &quot;Zoolander.&quot;  Just to name a few, there's cameos by Cuba Gooding
Jr., Christian Slater, Winona Ryder, Billy Zane, Vince Vaughn (in a
disappointing, non-speaking role), Andy Dick, David Duchovny and Stiller's
own parents, Jerry Stiller and Anne Meara.  I'm surprised Stiller couldn't
find screen time for his long-time buddy Janeane Garofolo.  Stiller puts his
best foot forward in his lively comic peformance, and seems to be having a
lot of fun, but Zoolander is a bit of a one-joke caricature and he tries his
best to salvage laughs despite that.  Owen Wilson delivers a delightful
comic performance as his arch rival, Hansel.  The walk-off montage between
the two of them, set to Michael Jackson's &quot;Beat It&quot; is my favorite moment--a
very funny scene which is very well choreographed.  Of course, Stiller has
to give his wife Christine Taylor a significant role.  All I gotta say is
Ben--you're a lucky man!  Christine is a very beautiful woman, and a
charming actress to boot.  Will Ferrell is one of today's best comic
actors--capable of making almost scene work with his magical schtick.  I
just wish he could've had more screen time as the villain Mugato.  He's one
of those comic actors who can make an audience laugh with a simple facial
expression.  The soundtrack is great, including such great 80s hits as
&quot;Working for the Weekends&quot; and &quot;Wake Me Up Before You Go Go.&quot;  &quot;Zoolander&quot;
is not a great movie, nor a hysterically funny one, but it's worth renting
and does have its moments.  <br /><br />My score:  6 (out of 10)            
