2008_May 26 
I really did not take in the full impact and admirableness of The Fifth
Element until recently after another viewing, long after my first. I
did not remember it well upon this new viewing, but I did remember
enjoying it and loving Milla Jovovich&#x27;s performance and character, and
was excited to see it again. What I got in store for me this time was
something miraculous and much more extravagant than I could have
imagined in all the ways a movie could be. I really do believe it is a
wonderful, moving film with the right amounts of action, love, comedy
and horror to be total entertainment from beginning to end and, in my
case, a breathtaking experience.<br /><br />Let me start off by praising the cast. Everyone is full throttle on
their characters. While Milla Jovovich is still one of my favorite
aspects of the movie, I really enjoyed Bruce Willis, surprisingly more
than almost any other movie I have seen him in to this day, as well as
Gary Oldman and Chris Tucker who were hilarious and entertaining as
well, and all the cast gave great attitude and likability to their
characters which made the film work more than it would have if the cast
would have been careless or not casted properly. The script, while
probably nothing special to some, I thought was fresh, fun and
satisfying in the utmost sense and provided a lot of material to work
with. The scenes are captivating and either fast or slow depending on
what the movie is wanting you to take in at the time, which ultimately
works for the better to help everyone understand what is going on plot-
wise.<br /><br />One of the most mesmerizing and enchanting scenes for me is the
performance of the Diva Plavalaguna. I was astonished by how amazing
the scene came off to me while watching. It is made out in the movie to
be one of the most beautiful experiences the characters have been
through, and in all seriousness, for me at least, it was. I thought it
was excellently directed with beautiful vocals and the beat halfway
through the vocals is catchy and I just enjoy the scene so insanely
much. Some other great scenes include the climax and a scene close to
the beginning including some excellent first chemistry between Jovovich
and Willis&#x27;s characters in a cop chase. I hope I have expressed my
newfound love for this movie in a strong enough manner to encourage
anyone to see it. It took another viewing for me to realize how
excellent of a movie this is, so maybe it&#x27;s haters that underrate it
will give it another chance in time. It is an overlooked gem, and I
highly enjoy it in many ways.
