2005_December 28 
Mystic mumbo jumbo in the 23 century...The Fifth Element is just that.
The age old battle of Good and Evil is played out once again, this time
to the tune of hovercraft, light-speed travel, and aliens. And the only
thing stopping Earth from being consumed by destruction is Milla
Jonovich and 4 old rocks. Sounds like we're in trouble, huh? Watch the
seen where Leeloo (Milla) takes on a small army of baddies and wins,
and you'll agree it's a good thing she's on our side.<br /><br />And of course Bruce Willis is there too, blowing things up and gunning
down the baddies like only he can. In true Willis style, he snaps
wisecracks left and right and also has the perfect line. Only Willis
can shoot an alien in the head and crack a joke three seconds later.
Chris Tucker also comes on board as a Radio DJ in a skin-tight leopard
print bodysuit. The ladies in the film call Tucker's character 'Ruby
Rhod' sexy and talented. Korben (Bruce Willis) holds him by the throat
and tells him to keep his trap shut and leave him alone. Odds are that
anyone who sees Tucker in this movie won't blame him. Surprisingly,
even Tucker does his part to save the world. Although afterwards he
whines and complains about it.<br /><br />Guiding Korben is an old priest and his apprentice. The priest wants to
save the world. To do it, he stows away on a ship, knocks out Bruce
Willis, and pretty much tells off the President (of Earth, not just the
U.S.). This guy isn't your typical Sunday pastor! Also in the run for
life are the President and the army. The President almost cries at the
end, and the head of the army gets trapped in a freezer and frozen.
Makes you wonder how they ever got into power...<br /><br />Opposing the Good are the Bad and the Ugly: Unlike many other movies,
this one doesn't go overboard by featuring aliens left and right. But
the Mangalores are fun, pig-like aliens that, like all good villains,
are greedy, noisy, violent, and just far too easy to poke fun at.
What's a movie without the incompetent henchmen? And Gary Oldman plays
the part of Zorg, the cunning, intelligent and evil business man that
doesn't realize he's helping to doom mankind. Hm, maybe he isn't that
intelligent after all. Putting aside that tiny little flaw, Zorg
carries a big gun, loves flamethrowers, and kills anyone who dares
stand in his way- including his own employees. What more could you ask
for in an evil villain? An outlandish costume? Zorg has it! Don't ask
why he wears a piece of plastic that covers half his head, no one
knows. But it looks silly, and actually fits in with Zorg's metallic
green and orange get-up, so you'll get over it fairly fast. Or burst
out laughing, one of the two.<br /><br />Overall, this movie is just plain fun! The villain's constant failures
break him down to tears at one point, there's a giant fireball set to
consume Earth, and every time we see Bruce Willis with a gun, it's a
sure thing someone's gonna get shot. Ancient rituals, a perfect being,
Bruce Willis and an all-you-can-kill buffet of explosions, gunfire and
general mayhem. If you're looking for a great sci-fi movie, look no
further!
