2006_January 21 
I'm going to give this a 7/10 for a few fantastic scenes, including an
awesome gunfight scene at the end. Bruce Willis was great in this
scene, and it would be his best gun-play scene had he not done last man
standing. But other than a few great scenes, and when I say great- I
mean just that, this movie had stupid cartoon dialog and some hall of
shame-worthy over acting.<br /><br />The plot is kind of hard to swallow at times. It can be complex, but
can also be shortened for those of whom don't like to think very much
during a film. The basic plot is as follows; Bruce Willis plays a bad
motherf*cker named Corben Dallas, who has lost his wife and is slumming
it in futuristic Brooklyn. He is a former pilot who worked for the
government- now, well... not so much. He is a taxi driver who, up until
the first day you meet him, has a license with 3 marks on it I believe.
After that day though, he ends up with the supreme being falling
through the roof of his cab, his 3 marks being taken away along with
his license and his job, and to top it all off- this chick can't speak
a word of English. Now he goes to a priest, the priest that the chick
keeps talking about- yelling out his name and so forth. This priest is
an expert on the matter, and until Corben Dallas and his supreme being
friend came knocking on his door, he thought mankind was doomed. Corben
signs up, unwillingly, to do one last mission for the government,
seeing as how he already was knee deep in it, and is set up to win a
contest- putting him on a ship with some sacred stones that he has to
retrieve. You know, it is not as complicated as it sounds, in fact it's
quite an easy film to follow, but on paper... not so much.<br /><br />So anyway, this film was very entertaining, and seeing as how I just
watched total recall this morning- I felt the need to go out and rent
the fifth element. They remind me of each other for some reason. I
heard through the grapevine that the first draft of this film was
written by Luc Besson in the 10th grade. Now I'm not sure if this is
true or not, and I am way too lazy to check on the IMDb.com trivia
section- if it's even there. But anyway, if you're bored and want a
cool film that is very, very sci-fi- then you should definitely rent
this. I'd say it redeems itself for all the cartoonish dialog and
over-acting when they reach the Oprah, but then again- I liked the film
as a whole. Bruce Willis is excellent, as is Gary Oldman, but Milla
Jovovich (spelling?) is phenomenal. Excellent to say the least. Too bad
she went on and did resident evil.<br /><br />This was worth a 7/10. Just about as good as Total Recall, although I
forget what I gave total recall.
