2001_November 11 

The obvious film to compare this to is the excellent, wacky, well realized
american film Series 7: The Contenders. In that film there was intelligent
social analysis and alongside the dark humour a keen understanding of
human
emotions and indeed motivations. Battle Royale, by comparison, is just bad
and wrong. Granted the first twenty-five minutes are reasonably
entertaining
and original, after that it descended into gunfire (with only the
memorable
grenade instant to alleviate the boredom) and cheap, obvious
sentimentality.
The ending was appalling (and when thought about doesn't make sense: I
take
it the 'good' transfer student fired blanks or into the air but how could
he
have known that the systems would be down and therefore the noise of
gunfire
would be enough to convince the authorities that the other two were dead)
and the acting, apart from Beat, was ropey to say the least. There was no
sincere or believable character development: the central romance was
amazingly corny. So many things in that film just had no point and were
badly thought out, e.g. hardly anything was made of the danger zones. The
photography in the film was obvious and repetitive: this may come as a
shock
to some but to make landscapes look nice is probably the easiest job on
earth for a cinematographer- its the landscape of the face that matters
and
that was completely lacking. The flashbacks were glossy in the extreme:
glimpses of just how bad and run-of-the-mill this guy really is as a
director. My penultimate point will probably irritate (I'm hoping no one
else had made it- I haven't read all the comments): in the aftermath of
sept
11 (which I think all art, especially film due to the nature of the media
coverage of the event, has to be held up against) anyone who finds the
double suicides (for an obvious parallel) or just general chaos of the
film
moving must be an emotional cripple. I have absolutely no problem with
films
portraying violence- watch a genuine slasher or horror movie they're far
more entertaining. However, if a film sets out with the lofty intentions
of
combining violence with intelligence and emotion they must do it well; if
not, life imitates art imitates cheap, false emotions. Finally, I can
hardly
put into words the disgust I have for the person who dared to call this
film
the 'greatest film Kubrick never made': beyond incredibly superficial,
banal
nods to Kubrick (especially soundtrack wise)this film had nothing of his
in
terms of intelligence, consistency, and above all beauty. Lets all hope
the
master rests in peace.
