2001_August 1 

After reading an article about this highly controversial film in a magazine
I was determined to see it despite the fact that it may never reach American
audiences because of its content. I beat the system and ordered a VCD of
Battle Royale off of an auction website.  The film is not what I expected.
The story line is right away controversial, a class of rebellious students
are randomly selected to fight in a law enforced game called Battle Royale. 
The rules are simple, within 3 days only one student should be alive or they
are all executed by monitoring collars that will explode on their necks. 
They are handed personal items and a bag of supplies, which includes a
single weapon, which ranges from a fan, binoculars to an ax or a machine
gun.  Some get luckier than others with this random selection. The whole
thing about the plot is that it is never really explained as to how or why
anyone would enact a law such as this.  Very few scenes actually show that
the children are really that bad that they should be forced to kill each
other as an example to other youngsters to go to school.  The film
altogether was not an artful or insightful commentary on rising violence in
youth.  The way it was directed and put together gives more of a premise of
a freak game show with no meaning.  The only meaning I could find in the
whole film was that they teenagers did not belong there and that when put
into a survival situation 14 year olds will blow each others heads off.  I
am sorry but this is all this movie has to say for itself.  At that though,
this movie is not as disturbing as it has been pegged.  The violence is
minor but because it aims at all young children and seemingly the most
gruesome deaths are held out for the girls in the movie is why its become so
controversial.  Only a couple scenes come to mind that were less than
necessary, first to mind the scene where two girls call a truce on a
loudspeaker and the series of events that follow.  A lot of the movie
especially different characters actions is left so unexplained.  Such as the
actions of the pompous girl with the reaper weapon or the transfer student
who simply is mutilating people for fun.  Was the director so desperate for
antagonists that he just threw some really evil kids in for the mix?  Why
are some of these kids so comfortable with their surroundings that they
continue with their daily lives such as putting on make up in the morning,
running track exercises and cooking pasta? Barely any children get more than
5 minutes of screen time before they are killed.  Although I will admit I
was surprised to find life and pity in some of these kids in just those 5
minutes alone.  The quality of the film is very poor.  There is nothing
significant about the directing or dialogue.  The acting was noticeable for
a film made 90% of teenagers.  I don't see why this movie shouldn't make it
to American screens.  Battle Royale was made to be a blockbuster hit. 
Nothing else.  
