2005_August 29 
In a futuristic Japan, millions are without work. Teenagers no longer
regularly attend school and the educational system is near collapse.
Students still dress in their neat beige uniforms but discipline no
longer exists. To combat this situation, the government passes The
Millennium Education Reform Act designating a class of ninth-grade
students to be chosen each year by lottery and sent to a deserted
island to fight each other until only one person survives. Based on a
novel by Koushin Takami, Battle Royale, a film by the late Yakuza
director Kinji Fukasaku, is a requiem for the end of dreams and a
metaphor for the loss of innocence in a world that has forgotten what
it means to be human.<br /><br />Though there are moments of black humor, the film is playing for keeps
and the insanity of violence is shown in such uncompromising detail
that it vividly reminds us that death is not a spectator sport, but a
shocking and horrifying reality. The latest contest reunites 44
selected students with their teacher (Takeshi Kitano), a detached and
ruthless resentful of the dwindling attendance in his classes. Each
student is given food, a different weapon, a map, and a collar affixed
to their neck that will explode if they try to remove it. They have
three days in which to survive or perish. The children, forced by
society to engage in a bloodletting ritual, all react differently.<br /><br />Some refuse to participate and plan to escape, some join with other
groups for protection, some use it as an opportunity to settle old
scores, a few commit suicide, and still others take it as a challenge
to survive at all costs. Fukasaku captures what it means to be an
adolescent with its sadness, bravado, and joy. Before she is killed, a
teenage girl tells Shuya that she has always had a crush on him.
Another boy facing death asks a girl if she will help him lose his
virginity. Children are forced to live in an atmosphere of fear and
distrust, having to look at their best friend as a potential killer. In
this nightmare scenario, every morning they listen to the loudspeaker
announcement by their teacher, about who is dead and how many are left
alive. The actors cast are all around the age of fifteen and all are
excellent.<br /><br />A blur at the beginning, we gradually get to know the main characters.
Shuya Nanahara (Tatsuya Fujiwara) is a boy whose father hung himself
and decides he will do anything to protect Noriko (Aki Maeda), the girl
he loves. Kawada is a survivor of a previous contest, who Shuya and
Noriko trust to provide them with a means of escape. In Battle Royale,
the violence is overwhelming and the film raised a storm of controversy
in Japan when it was first released. It is, however, not shown to numb
our senses but to make us feel. Like All About Lily Chou Chou, a 2002
film about the effects of bullying in Japanese Junior High Schools,
Battle Royale captures the effects of a social order that has lost its
bearing.<br /><br />It is a fable but one that makes a coherent statement about the world
we live in. In a world where 14 and 15 year-olds are forced into combat
in African and South American guerrilla wars, where the proportion of
childhood deaths in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is greater than
adults by a ratio of 5-1, and where hundreds of children are killed
each day in Iraq in the name of democracy, it is only logical to ask
why our children should be overly concerned with the inherent value of
life when apparently no one cares. In the words of Bill Marshall, &quot;It
is only through the realization that&#133;killing is an abomination, no
matter what form it takes or how it is described, that we can instill a
conscience in all of our children.&quot; Hopefully that lesson can be taken
from Battle Royale.
