2005_April 25 
Adapted from Koushun Takami's already controversial novel by the late
Kinji Fukasaku, the film went on to make a &quot;killing&quot; at the box office,
despite it's R15 rating, and has since become a cult favorite in many
corners of the world.<br /><br />The premise is simple. In a fictitious Japan plagued with social ills
and unrest, the government has passed the BR Act. Each year, a class of
junior high school students is sent to a remote location, given weapons
and provisions, fitted with explosive collars, and subsequently forced
to kill each other off until only one remains. The lone survivor is
then deemed worthy to join civilized society. Most think that such a
concept for a movie that is so over the top and gratuitous it's insane,
but that is not the case. Fukasaku wanted this movie to be viewed by
all ages, but putting its gory depictions of death and blood into
consideration the ratings would not allow it.<br /><br />But Battle Royale is not without its flaws. There are some plot holes,
especially near the ending. Some of the dialogue is too melodramatic
and &quot;cheesy&quot;, but it did most certainly not bring down the film's
brilliance. But what it was missing most of all was character
development. Unlike the novel, the film had little to offer in terms of
characterization for it's characters. In book format, Takami could have
spent chapters characterizing each character with deep description. But
the movie rendition of the story did not have the same freedom.
Instead, it focused on three main characters: Shuya Nanahara (Tatsuya
Fujiwara), Noriko Nakagawa (Aki Maeda) and Shougo Kawada (Taro
Yamamoto). These three characters are actually given a back story,
motivations, and their desires for surviving the Battle Royale. But the
other 39 students are not complete strangers to the viewer. Supporting
character Mitsuko Souma (Kou Shibasaki) is given an in depth biography
of who she really is, rather than just a cunning huntress out for
revenge. In the Special Edition DVD, there is an extra scene containing
a flashback to her childhood, depicting of how horrible her childhood
was, and what caused her to act the way she acted in the movie and the
novel. The other cast members did a superb job on bringing their
characters to life. Indeed the characters are such familiar types that
we are able to learn a great deal about them, though we may only see
them for five seconds, because we have all come across them before in
our own lives. There are the popular girls, the outcasts, bullies,
jocks, the nerd who had more gel in his hair than The Fonz, and that
one promiscuous girl that your mother told you to stay away from. This
quick characterization works perfectly in the film and is enhanced by
the performances of the young actors and actresses who actually look
and behave like a real class.<br /><br />Some scenes are memorable enough to last a lifetime. Others, you just
seem to forget. One of the most loved scenes by viewers is the
Lighthouse Scene. I personally thought it was the most dramatic scene
in a movie in a long time. It was portrayed perfectly by actresses Eri
Ishikawa (Yukie Utsumi), Sayaka Kamiya (Satomi Noda), Satomi Ishii
(Haruka Tanizawa), Hitomi Huyga (Yuko Sakaki), Satomi Hanamura (Yuka
Nakagawa) and Asami Kanai (Chisato Matsui). Another favorite scene
loved by her fans is Chiaki Kuriyama's (Takako Chigusa) infamous
stabbing scene. Chiaki, although she played a small role in a big cast,
conveys a beautiful sense of confidence befitting her character and
delivers her lines with the psychotic flare. The same act is replayed
again in Quentin Tarantino's revenge flick &quot;Kill Bill, Vol. 1&quot; in which
Chiaki starred as the schoolgirl assassin GoGo Yubari.<br /><br />Overall, Battle Royale is easily one of the finest films to come from
Japan in a long time. The combination of a such a morbidly fascinating
premise, expert directing, fast-paced action sequences, and a beautiful
Classical score by Masamichi Amano make for a cinematic event that is
worth watching again and again.
