2005_April 12 
I usually have significant trouble with the adaptation of a great book
into a movie- they miss elements that the reader may have found to be
key- the emotional propulsion is lost, the motives are blurry, the
poignance is compromised. Movies have a time limit, a book does not.
However, given these constraints, I think Kinji Fukasaku did a really
good job at maintaining the integral elements that make Battle Royale
so fascinating. I think reading the book is pretty instrumental at
fully grasping the concept that is delivered in this film. One one
level, it is pretty basic- 42 classmates have 48 hours ( I think it is
3 days in the movie) to kill one another . They are dumped on an
evacuated island, given a random supply of weaponry (could be a fork,
could be a machine gun) and maps of the island which marks the rotation
of the &quot;forbidden zones&quot;- forcing movement, which forces interaction
between the students. Only one can survive, or the metal collars they
are equipped with will explode at the expiration date of the game. One
another level, it raises a lot of philosophical questions about life
and death, societies and politics - humanity in general. It is
definitely a violent movie, and it is definitely absurd in some ways-
but I don't see how we could see it any other way, the concept is so
extreme. A government regime that forces 14 year old kids kill each
other. However, it is the tension area between the violence and
absurdity that is most compelling- Do we cease to see something as
dark, ominous, wrong- because of our familiarity with it? Are
questionable ethics or values cloaked in rules, hidden in smiles, lost
in our inability to change it? What does our compliance mean,
ultimately?<br /><br />I think the book deserves the kudos to raise these questions, and I
think the movie does a great job at delivering these concepts with
visual punch. The cast was great, they were all quite young- and they
were phenomenal at capturing the fear, the hysteria, the calculations
of these kids, and it is always cool to see Beat Takeshi in a film.
