2002_July 31 

There's an old expression that the sequel is never better than the
original.
The expression has proven correct when it comes to many movies except for
maybe the Godfather, First Blood, and Austin Powers, all movies which had
sequels that were as good if not better than the original (in my own
opinion).<br /><br />This sequel, unfortunately, is no exception to the expression.  This movie
was not the movie the first one was.  In fact, it had a weaker plot.
Granted the movie had a smarter and more dangerous villian (Lara Flynn
Boyle) than in the original, but it did not have the plot to suffice nor
the
great supporting characters that the first movie had.<br /><br />For one, the Men In Black in the first movie were men who took alien
fighting seriously as opposed to Will Smith with his laid back approach to
it all.  IN this movie, Will Smith plays the straight man, despite some
tasteless side jokes, and it just doesn't work for him.  He plays more of
the character that Tommy Lee Jones did in the first one.  It was meant to
be
a twist of comic irony, but it just doesn't cut it.  The rest of the Men
In
Black in this movie seem pretty stupid.  If I were the head of this
organization, I would have zapped that red lazer in their eyes the first
chance I got!  Not even Rip Torn seems to be the same head of the agency he
was in the first movie.  He seemed to be even stupider that the rest of the
MIB wannabes.<br /><br />There were a few funny parts, don't get me wrong.  But the movie was made
sloppily and didn't live up to the first movie not only with the lack of
humor but with the idea of the Men In Black being the rigid, top secret
agency with Will Smith as the exception to that rule.  In this, the plot
was
turned upside down and made into a movie even shorter that Lilo And Stitch.
Although there was a part that did explain the absence of Linda Fiorentino,
this movie seems like it was written by someone who hadn't even seen the
first movie.  Overall it deserves 4 out of 10 stars in my book.  That's all
I have to say about it.
