2004_September 11 

Resident Evil: Apocalypse is the movie event of the season for me. I
went into this baby with mixed expectations however. Point in fact,
this is the sequel to the surprise gem that was Resident Evil. I have
been looking forward to part 2 since seeing the closing frame of that
film. My explosive anticipation has been silenced somewhat in the past
few weeks, with all the negative output from advance reviews and what
not. Still, nothing short of a million dollars would keep me away from
the theater tonight. After the credits rolled, I felt numb; I couldn't
believe that all of the time spent waiting for this movie had come to
an end, an end which quite frankly, I wasn't sure how I felt about.<br /><br />Let's break RE:A down. The plot was almost non existent, which kinda
sucks being that the original was founded on a - dare i say it -
engaging plot. We got likable characters with a certain depth to them,
enough for us to hope for their survival. This film threw in a bunch of
&quot;cool&quot; new characters without so much of a mention as to where they're
coming from (yes I'm talking about you Jill Valentine). Being an avid
fan of the games, I was hoping to find at least some reference to
Jill's experience in the mansion. I let it slid, I figured I knew her
background so no use in wasting time right? Well I will tell you this
much, there was NEVER a dull moment in RE:A. This is probably the most
action packed movie you will see all year, if not the last 5 years.
Each scene finds the protagonists in a new environment with one of the
myriad threats presented along the way. I had expected a more action
centric movie as compared to the first, but jeez, this movie was so
over the top I found it impossible not to enjoy.<br /><br />One of the highlights of Resident Evil was Milla Jovovich, who once
again owns the screen. While her character lacks the dialogue and sass
she had in the first movie, she partakes in more action scenes than any
other character. Her performance was mostly in facial expressions and
an intimidation factor highly elevated from the original. Basically,
Alice is one badass mother****er, an attitude Milla conveyed to a tee.
Sienna Guilleroy was satisfying in her 2-dimensional role as Jill
Valentine. She played it cool and her outfit was classic. No one else
in the movie really stuck out acting wise, although the little girl was
a nice form of continuity with the first.<br /><br />Here was my BIGGEST problem with Resident Evil: Apocalypse: the
directing. Alexander Witt must be a schizophrenic (sp?) because this
movie felt like it had three different directors. First, there was the
MTV style quick cuts which are becoming all too popular in big
Hollywood action movies as of late. Also appearing were a couple of
cool 90s action movie shots in which all the action is clear from a
bitchin angle, like shot behind Alice in the church watching the
explosion. Finally the b-horro film director had to get his say, adding
(many) effective jump scenes and crooked angles. The guy just couldn't
make up his mind; my eyes rolled each time the MTV style was featured,
something which happened too much for my taste. I think Paul Anderson
would've done a much better job.<br /><br />I am still collecting my thoughts on this movie. It was such a big
thing for me, I couldn't possibly decide a solid grade after a single
viewing. I did like a lot of what I saw, exclaimed &quot;holy sh*t&quot; a lot,
and even jumped out of my seat on much more occasions than I was
expecting. I'm going to recommend this movie to fans of the original
and to all action fans; you should not be disappointed.

