2004_September 12 

I recently saw Resident Evil: Apocalypse on opening night here and was
pleasantly surprised by the several things. First of all, the movie
closely follows the plot and storyline of the 3rd Resident Evil game
(Resident Evil - Nemesis - PS1), detailing how Jill Valentine and
Carlos Olivera attempt to escape from Racoon City after it's residents
have been infected with the T-Virus. I was also pleasantly surprised
with the acting, as it wasn't stellar but not horrible either. This
time around the zombies seems more vicious and blood-thirsty than in
the first film which actually had me a bit scared at certain parts in
the movie which was something I was not expecting going into it.<br /><br />Overall, it was a decent movie and worth the price of admission,
especially if you're as big of an RE fan as I am. Now then, you can
read any one of the reviews posted for this movie and get detailed
opinions of the acting, storyline, etc. However, the real reason I am
writing this is to voice my distaste with the directing and filming
style of this movie. It seems that whenever someone who has a history
of directing music videos directs a movie, they all suffer from the
same problem. Apparently, the director can't keep a steady shot for
more than .7 seconds during every action scene of the movie. Now, maybe
my eyesight is getting poor in my old age (24) but every time it came
to killing some zombies in that movie I absolutely could not tell what
was going on. I know they just decimated a group full of blood-thirsty
zombies, I just don't know how they did it. Every action scene sort-of
washes over you because your eyes and brain can't keep up with the
seemingly still frame picture show that occurs whenever things heat up.
Someone should tell these directors that they have a good hour and half
to work with, slow things down just a tad, let people actually see what
is going on during a battle or action scene and for God's sake, keep
the camera steady.<br /><br />Anyway, that's my only real gripe with the movie. Other than that it
was a great film for fans. If you see it I hope you enjoy it.

