2004_September 20 

This is my first movie review. Since this move is based on a popular
video game franchise, I'll give my first thoughts to a potential viewer
who hasn't played the games.<br /><br />Resident Evil: Apocalypse is a sci fi/action movie mix. The plot and
most of the characters are original, and the movie's pace is a
consistent mix of action sequences and character interaction scenes
that reveal the agenda of the Umbrella corporation and key figures
within it. Special effects are very well done, and there are a few
clever moments and plot elements. Many of the action scenes employ a
modern technique, whereby you can only see a confusing flurry of
swinging fists, kicks and weapons in camera closeups. I couldn't help
feeling that the director (Alexander Witt) tried bludgeoning viewers
with cheap tricks as a substitute for choreographing realistic
sequences. This, along with the in-your-face bravado displayed by the
main characters did the interesting plot a major injustice.<br /><br />For fans of the video game franchise, like myself, there are some nice
treats, my favorites being Nemesis and zombie dogs, both extremely well
done and true to the games. Overall, the movie captures the look of the
games faithfully- but not the style, not by a long shot.<br /><br />In the mid 90s the Resident Evil series started a game genre called
'survival horror'. The experience one has playing any of the games is
one of carefully paced tension, fright, shock, and.... desperate
survival, all lacking by varying degrees in the movie. This is not to
say that Apocalypse didn't have scary moments, but unlike in the games
the characters weren't ordinary enough to convince me of their peril
and heroism. An example of this is the introduction of Jill Valentine's
character (Sienna Guillory), whose look was obviously meant to match
that of her video game persona. The problem was that in the movie the
look made her seem more like a prostitute with an attitude, an
inappropriate juxtaposition for the plight of her character. In my
opinion, this movie could have easily been much more gripping, if not a
classic, if it had followed the styles of classic 'survival' sci fi
films like The Thing or the first Terminator movie. I'll bet that
Resident Evil creator Shinji Mikami sees the Resident Evil movies as a
mixed blessing; they give the franchise much larger exposure, but
without his involvement, style is sacrificed.

