2012_January 9 
I enjoyed this version of &#x22;The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo&#x22;. It was a
well made and well acted movie and I gave it a 7/10 rating. But I
enjoyed the Swedish version more, 8/10. The Swedish version was truer
to the book and a bit more coherent. The acting in both movies was
fine, some great performances in both and I can&#x27;t really fault either
movie. I thought the American version could have been a bit confusing
since they took such liberties with the book&#x27;s narrative. The main
character of Mikael Blomkvist in the American version was a bit less
conspicuous which is a good thing since I got rather sick of Mikael
Blomkvist by the end of the third book. He wasn&#x27;t a believable
character since he was so self-righteous and such a ladies man. His
portrayal by Michael Nyqvist in the Swedish version was also
underplayed, and well acted. The really big difference between the
versions was the portrayal of Lisbeth Salander. She was the biggest
draw of the books and the movies and her character drove the narrative
for me. Noomi Rapace portrayed her in the Swedish version and was
wonderful in the role. She was Lisbeth Salander to me. Rooney Mara in
the American version was good but not in the same league with Noomi
Rapace. In the American film she came across as a more deliberately
rude, petulant little girl, like a spoiled ,rich, high schooler who did
what she did to get attention and anger people. Noomi Rapace&#x27;s version
came across as a more disturbed person, someone who just didn&#x27;t have
social skills or even thought about them. In the books she was more of
a idiot savant or someone who could have Asperger syndrome. She was
horrible mistreated as a youth but was extremely intelligent and
talented. Noomi Rapace had that down. Her most interesting scenes were
as Lisbeth sitting and thinking. You could see the wheels turning. You
could see her figure things out. Rooney Mara didn&#x27;t have that. She just
was shock value. Not that she was bad in the role but just not deep
enough. She bragged more and was more out there with her personality.
Noomi Rapace was very internal and disliked anyone getting close to
her. She had few friends and even with them she was very reserved. It
was a wonderfully intriguing portrayal. Both movies are good but if you
are a fan of the books you may like the Swedish version more with Noomi
Rapace&#x27;s portrayal of Lisbeth Salander.
