2011_December 26 
Having read both the books and watched the Swedish version of the film,
I did not have high hopes for the remade American version. I was
concerned about how a big-budget, Hollywood style movie might take away
from the rawness of the story. Turns out I had nothing to worry about.<br /><br />This American version is actually much more true to the book than is
the Swedish version. The only major change from the book was that
Blomkvist did not have sex with every single female character that
showed up in the story (thankfully, the Swedish version left this out,
too, because it was just ridiculous). Besides this, it incorporated
many aspects of the book that were left out in the Swedish film. The
result is a very long film, which may start to drag on for people who
have never read the books, but which is certainly enough to satisfy
fans. Despite being a somewhat flashier, higher-budget version, this
version of the movie does a good job of incorporating a lot of the
rawness of the story. There are plenty of horrifying, cringe-worthy
scenes that are not censored anymore than the Swedish version (in fact,
it almost seems as though Fincher was trying to be even more shocking).<br /><br />The acting and casting was superb. Daniel Craig is a perfect choice for
Blomkvist; despite his previous macho hero roles, he does a great job
in bringing out the vulnerability of his character. He is a relatively
mild-mannered man who finds himself caught up in some dangerous
situations. Although I don&#x27;t feel like anyone can ever do any better
than Noomi Rapace as Salander in the original movies, Rooney Mara
certainly came very close with a much different style. Mara brings out
a little more of the emotionality of Salander but still well mixed with
the blank mask of a traumatized girl. The chemistry between Blomkvist
and Salander is very well done in this movie - there is a certain
warmth between Daniel Craig and Rooney Mara that was lacking in the
Swedish version. Other notable performances include Christopher Plummer
as Henrik Vanger (who borders on amusing when he talks about his family
squabbles), Stellan Skarsgard as Martin Vanger, and Steven Berkoff as
Frode.<br /><br />I did have a few minor issues with the movie. The accents were pretty
poorly done. It felt as though the directors and the actors couldn&#x27;t
decide whether they wanted the characters to have accents or not. Some
characters had part-time accents and others seemed to have no accent at
all (Daniel Craig, in particular). I wouldn&#x27;t really mind if none of
the actors had Swedish accents since this is an English-language film
but there is definitely a need to be consistent. Unlike other
reviewers, I was not at all a fan of the soundtrack. Most of it hardly
sounded like music to me - sort of just techno sounds half the time.
The worst was the opening credits with really bizarre Gothic art and a
song that just seemed very at odds with the rest of the movie.
