2011_December 30 
Girl with the Dragon Tattoo (Fincher, 2011) concerns the interaction of
two characters who are dipoles on the social spectrum. The wrapper of
the mystery and acts of aggression committed by or against them serve
to enamor the spectator to Lisbeth Salander (Mara Rooney) and Mikael
Blomkvist (Daniel Craig). The character Lisbeth is title namesake and
hence the primary protagonist. Lisbeth is the first character to appear
in the film as she engulfs the spectator in the opening credit title
sequence. The primordial ink stained technological opening denotes the
subconscious processing of present and early traumatic events in the
dragon girls dream-nightmare life. From this point forward Lisbeth
remains an enigma of feminism exploited. In the tradition of fetishism
of female protagonists, Lisbeth falls somewhere between horror and
pornography. She is broken up, dissected and split between the two
genres as both victim and hero. The sadomasochistic aspects unleashed
upon our hero have her pinned into the corner of inescapable social
conformity that has been thoroughly corrupted by perpetrators of the
administration. She is obviously not a nice girl and as such must be
punished for her non conformity. Director David Fincher gives us this
punishment beyond what we may have imagined. This added level of pure
sadism inflicted upon Lisbeth and physicality of abuse leaves her
character totality stripped of any humanistic element, there is little
choice for her other than to curl up and die or fight for her life. It
leaves the spectator with the feeling, &#x22;well she did not deserve that!&#x22;
and questioning their own system of beliefs and morality. Reacting as a
caged animal would, she lashes back at the audience in the psychic
castration most feared by the phallus wielding spectator. The audience
is more than elated by her resilience and exacting revenge against the
atrocities committed, indeed it has been quite some time since I have
witnessed such an outburst of cheers elicited from todays placated
spectators. Her vengeance is not only for herself individually but for
female victims everywhere. As is the trend of modern cinema, the
character has become a vessel for the spectator ego-ghost, and we are
given a protagonist that is a blank canvas upon which we paint.<br /><br />Trnet Reznor&#x27;s sound-image adds considerably to the film. I especially
enjoyed Lisbeth&#x27;s scream/roar on the subway escalator. The NIN t-shirt
plug is a little clich&#xE9;. Fincher does a nice job, in Hitchcockian
fashion, of building suspense and downplaying they more graphic
elements as contained in the original version. It was an excellent film
and Fincher is at the top of his game, although the general public
still may not recognize his name as much as more celebrated Directors.<br /><br />Excerpt: The Ego-Ghost Theory: &#x22;The oscillation continues between the
inner (RIS) Spheres as sustained elevated duration enables reading of a
complete cinematic language. The double level communication structure
exists between the Ego-Ghost and the Screen Universe itself. Complete
cinematic language as interpreted by the Ego-Ghost is provided in
transference as a psychic imprint to the outer (RIS) Spheres of the
Ego.<br /><br />Future trends with respect to the Cinema can be observed in The Girl
With The Dragon Tattoo. The Ego-Ghost as inhabitant of the characters
of Lisbeth Salander and Mickael Blomkvist moves beyond the screen
universe. As the characters seek to solve the mystery, they, and we as
their inhabitants, are drawn into the spectacle of home movies, multi
frame still images, computer video media and audio-visual evidence.
This spectacle within the spectacle may produce an additional level of
(RIS) essentially inverting the model again and the producing a
perceptive refection that the events and evidence are in effect real&#x22;.
