2012_March 23 
First of all, I have to preface this by saying I have not read the
novel nor seen the Swedish film. Watching David Fincher&#x27;s American
version is my first experience with this story. Now that that is out of
the way,what can I say about this film other than how this is
filmmaking at its finest? Totally riveting, brilliant and captivating.
From the hauntingly beautiful score, to the picture perfect
cinematography,to the gripping intensity of the dialogue, and the
amazing performances by all of the cast, The Girl With the Dragon
Tattoo is one of my favorite movies of all time. It hits every beat and
always nails the feelings of the characters beautifully. I loved
everything about this movie. I loved the performance of Rooney Mara in
particular. Wow talk about giving yourself completely to a character
and film role? She did not hold back and delivered one of the most
brilliant, magnificent performances of all time. She hit every beat
perfectly and said so much with the look in her eyes. This movie is
very dark and very disturbing in certain scenes. And this movie does
not have tons of action. It relies on its dialogue and its character
development, which is the strongest I&#x27;ve seen in a long time in a film.
The dialogue is important and puts the pieces together beautifully. And
when the film does have action, it once again delivers perfectly on the
mark. I could say so much more about this wonderful piece of cinematic
excellence but I will simply say this: one of the best movies, not only
of the year, but also of all time. David Fincher once more hits the
mark. This movie is not for everyone, if you don&#x27;t like long movies
with lots of dialogue and few action scenes and if you don&#x27;t like
gruesome, grotesque, overtly violent scenes-this movie isn&#x27;t for you.
But if you like dark films with great dialogue, haunting music, superb
acting, and an overall look and feel of excellence-then this movie is
for you. I can&#x27;t wait to see this movie again and again. This film gets
9 out of 10 rating from me.
