2011_November 23 
I am always a fan of Steve Carell since the movie Forty Year Old Virgin
which was released in 2005. In this movie, he is played as Cal Weaver
who is going through a divorce and trying to get back with his wife. I
like this movie because it is quite unpredictable. Usually a comedy
romantic movie is very predictable, you can just guess what will happen
next. However for this one, it is quite interesting. Not until the very
last part of the movie that you know what will happen. The movie gives
you a picture of the American society where teenagers are going through
the teen phase and how they want to express themselves as adults and
want to be treated equally to an adult. A woman (by Jullianne Moore)
who has been in marriage for 25 years with three children is going
through a mid-life crisis and struggling through it to find herself and
want to find the same voice with her husband again. She and her husband
were each other&#x27;s sweet hearts since the first time they met in high
school. Through the years, I guess work and children have come between
them. The husband (Steve Carell) lost his self-esteem and somehow
became alienated to his wife. They could not share their feelings and
laughters became less in their house. It was interesting and exciting
to watch this movie because you don&#x27;t know if they are going to get
back together or not. I also like how Ryan Gosling (as Jacob Palmer) is
being portraited as a play boy, good looking, so skillful in knowing
how to charms girls at the bars that he meets to get them into bed. The
scenes keep switching between Jacob Palmer trying to hit on Hannah and
about Hannal and then to Julliannae Moore and Steve Carell. It makes
you wonder what are the relationships between these characters. I am
not going to tell you to spoil the movie, you have to find out for
yourself. But that is something that makes the movie interesting. <br /><br />I love every single character in this movie, especially the little boy
and the baby sitter. The only thing I thought a little bit cheesy is
the end of the movie, the graduation ceremony. It is such a motif, so
typical of American movie. I don&#x27;t want to say much because it might
spoil you if you have not seen the movie.
