2005_August 9 
With out a doubt one of the worst films of all time! it is dreadful!!
Truly! not one of the characters have anything to them. The whole
premise is incredibly weak. The dialogue is without any merit or
reason. It's simply lots of swear words in an attempt to seem gritty
and tough when in truth its clearly just someone with out any talent or
voice as a writer using f**k coz he hasn't got anything else to say. It
really did feel like a film written by a particularly untalented 12
year old boy that gets bullied at school every day. There is nothing of
merit or even sense to this. This man has no talent!! And as a
director... Jesus! His cast is so lost to the point where even the
likes of experienced Willem Dafoe is just wondering around, jumping on
tables and pulling strained faces just in an attempt to give the non
character..... something, anything. But even he can't do anything but
look really uncomfortable and out of place. Troy Duffy isn't Tarantino.
Killing people on screen and smoking cigarettes doesn't make you a good
writer. And he isn't even in the same league as Guy Ritchie, who he
obviously tried to steel from just before he began photography. Guy
Ritchie has a consistency to his films and isn't confused about weather
it is a cartoon gangster tale, or a down and dirty gritty morality
tale. Even Over Board was better than this utter bilge, in fact The
Boondock Saint makes Over Board look like Dr Strangelove. There is
absolutely nothing about this film to redeem it. Its not even enjoyably
bad. It's beyond painful and at just over one and a half hours it feels
like one of the longest films you'll ever force your self to sit
through. If you are thinking of spending any hard earned cash to see
this, or even not so hard earned... or even, for that matter, if some
one is offering to pay you to watch it, don't. The only way I could
possibly suggest that you do is if you were one of the few that
actually like the Ronny Wo turd The Fifty First State. If, indeed, that
person even exists! Do not pollute yourself!
