2008_March 7 
There are statements people can make that instantly tell you everything
you need to know about them. When Albert Einstein stated that the
simple version of relativity was akin to how quickly time moved in
different situations, for example, it told the world they were dealing
with an intelligence too great to be easily understood. So when a
person tells you that Resident Evil: Extinction is a good film, you
instantly know that they are a grade A moron who is best swiftly
removed from the gene pool. And it is not like the filmmakers failed to
try this time. After the exercise in failure to deliver that the
previous sequel turned into, this installment simply had to get better
by comparison. The unfortunate downside to this being that a lot of
mouth-breathers who have obviously never seen a Romero or Fulci film
have the unfortunate habit of confusing &quot;better&quot; with &quot;good&quot;. Websites
dedicated to the savoring of bad films will tell you that a film is in
trouble when it starts to remind you of better ones. RE:E takes less
than four minutes to remind viewers of the substantially better
original.<br /><br />By now, we know better than to go to a Resident Evil film expecting
anything like good acting or a well-told story. But what separates the
first film from its sequels is a little quality called atmosphere.
Simply put, the look, the feel, the music, and even some of the
performances, were &quot;right&quot;. Resident Evil took the time to suspend the
viewer&#39;s disbelief and draw them into its world. The sequels absolutely
fail at this deceptively simple step because they take it for granted
that the viewer has been drawn in. This becomes painfully obvious when
voiceovers describe how the T-virus has somehow dried up the oceans or
other such rot. No matter how lethal and easily transmissible a virus
can be, one that destroys the environment that it is meant to thrive in
is not well-equipped for long-term survival. But since we are meant to
accept this virus as being able to instantly adapt to whatever needs
the plot requires, we also accept that making sense is not high on the
list of priorities the filmmakers have.<br /><br />If only the film having a voice of its own was a higher priority to
these filmmakers. As said previously, RE:E wastes no time in reminding
the viewers of better films. Aside from the original in the series,
RE:E also attempts to steal from not one, not two, but three George
Romero films, all from the same series. Say what you will about Day Of
The Dead especially, but Day Of The Dead&#39;s subplot about attempts to
domesticate the zombies made an interesting metaphor for the
intolerance human society was and is developing for natural behaviour
that does not meet the expected norm. In RE:E, this subplot is handled
with such clumsy focus on attempting to move the plot forward by any
means necessary that any social commentary is lost in the disbelief at
how inept the storytellers seem. The concept of parties raiding old
towns for supplies is also about as original as a third-generation fax,
but it is done so badly here that it truly makes one appreciate how
Land Of The Dead negated questions about what the heroes are going to
do when the leftovers run out.<br /><br />And even if RE:E fails to remind one of much better films, the
philosophy that less is more completely and utterly backfires. One
reason the Resident Evil sequels remind this viewer a lot of Romero&#39;s
Dead series is because Romero&#39;s Dead series allocated sufficient time
to explore enough of the characters that their plight and struggles
seemed real and compelling. The manner in which the shopping mall
environment slowly evolves from a safe paradise to a prison is very
palpable due to the acting in Dawn Of The Dead. The real Dawn Of The
Dead, I mean. When you see Omar Epps return for another performance in
RE:E, all the toning down of the bling bling act in the world cannot
help but bring back memories of his performance in the previous film.
Which in turn leaves audiences who can read and speak at an adult level
wishing to see his character die a gruesome and horrid death. While
RE:E is not quite as softcore as its immediate predecessor, its
seemingly unending ability to leave the viewer wanting more is a stark
contrast to how Dead films can make even the most hardcore viewer
wonder if they are perhaps going too far.<br /><br />All this leaves one wondering exactly what Capcom think of how these
second-tier studio gatherings have used their property. The first film
in the series at least had a freaky sense of atmosphere and some
replications of game conventions to tie it to its source material. If
you changed the titles of the two sequels and removed all references to
the Umbrella corporation, they would be unrecognisable as connected to
Capcom&#39;s games. Simply put, the Resident Evil title is nothing more
than a transparent ploy to fanboys and video game addicts to pay for
films that are increasingly poorly-written. If truth in advertising
laws were more stringent, they would be required to be titled something
along the lines of We Have No Respect For You At All, Videogamers: Just
Give Us Your Money. The saddest part of it is that this kind of
corporate shill film designed to whip consumers into a money-shedding
frenzy is exactly what previous, far superior works such as (the real)
Dawn Of The Dead were trying to warn us about.<br /><br />Resident Evil: Extinction is a film so bad that it makes misfires like
Day Of The Dead seem like Zwartboek by comparison. It is a two out of
ten film in every sense: too bad to be worthwhile, not bad enough to be
entertaining. Avoid.
