2007_October 1 
The first Resident Evil films were good but were Luke warm adaptations
for a great computer game franchise by Capcom. However I was glad to
say that Resident Evil : Extinction on the other hand offered was a
nice way to cap off the saga. Set after the events of the second movie,
we find out band of survivors trying to get out of the barren wasteland
earth as the T-virus inflection goes global. The film wastes no time
just diving into the action and moving along at a quick pace with very
little gags and wise cracks as the tempo was upped. There were
excellent use of SFX, landscapes (kind of mad max style), and action
with gore. One thing that I loved about this movie was that it did not
waste time on trying to offer scientific explanations for everything
trying to make it sound intelligent as the last 2 movies did not really
do a great job of it, this one just stuck to the action. Both Milla
Jovoich and Oded Fehr were excellent in this as well as the alter-ego
crazy woman from Heroes - although she was Claire Redfield...but to me
she will forever be know as the homicidal woman alter-ego woman from
heroes and Manfred Powl from Tomb Raider was very cool as umbrella
research leader all keeping in touch with the spirit of the computer
game. My only complaints were that I wished it had ended a little
better and not on what felt like a cliffhanger. I would of also like to
have seen a bit on the expansion of Alice whilst she was in the
Umberealla facility rather than just an abrupt start I think that just
felt a little stupid! To conclude Resident Evil : Extinction stood out
on its own as a film as well as ending a saga of a very Luke warm
trilogy , worth a check if you have seen both films and are fan of the
games but also if your a fan of zombie movies like Dawn or Land of the
Dead! Either way this lived past its expectations of being crap and you
can check this out feeling entertained and satisfied unlike with Rob
Zombie&#39;s Halloween.<br /><br />RESIDENT EVIL:EXTINCTION - 8.8 OUT OF 10<br /><br />EXPERIMENTATION...EVOULUTION...EXTINCITION!
