2005_May 3 
Read all of my reviews at www.midnitcafe.blogspot.com What happens when
you take a talented French director, his model cum singer cum actress
wife, one of the greatest actors of the 70's and makes a movie about
one of the most renowned saints of France? You get a giant mess is
what. The Messenger: The Story of Joan of Arc is loaded with lots of
talented people, is filmed gorgeously and is mostly a lousy, muddled
film.<br /><br />The story of Joan of Arc (or Jeanne d'Arc as they call her in France)
is well known just about everywhere. Joan is a poor peasant living in a
small village in France during the Hundred Years War with England. She
begins seeing heavenly visions that tell her she is God's messenger to
rid her country of the bloody English. Somehow she convinces Charles,
the Dauphin with visions of being king, to give her an army to storm
Orleans. Using unconventional methods she leads her army to victory.
The Dauphin is crowned king and mostly forgets about Joan. She leads an
unsuccessful siege on Paris is given over to the English, tried and
burned at the stake, several hundred years later she is sainted by the
Catholic church. The Messenger covers most of this relatively
faithfully, and beautifully.<br /><br />Luc Besson is a talented director filming such classics as Le Femme
Nikita and The Professional. His talent is presented here in his
ability to create interesting and beautiful shots, but is lost in
creating a cohesive story. He doesn't seem to know what to do with the
story about the young saint. In parts it seems earnest in it's
recreation of this revolutionary with heavenly visions, but then it
sinks into near parody of itself and in the ends sinks towards a
reinventing of the events themselves asking Joan herself whether or not
her visions were real or mere psychosis.<br /><br />Milla Jovovich is a pretty face who has mostly been in forgettable,
silly comedies and the Resident Evil franchise which might as well be
considered a silly comedy for all its worth. Here, she has two modes of
acting, a strange amphetamine delivery of her lines as if she couldn't
spit them out fast enough, or a snarled scream as if acting was merely
being the loudest person on the set. It is not a nuanced performance.
For the entirety of the film she seems completely out of place.<br /><br />The battle or Orleans is tame at best. There are virtually no scenes of
real ambitious spectacle. We are given nothing to inform us of her
revolutionary forms of combat. Instead her method seems to be screaming
a lot and jumping a horse over the enemies fence. Later the storming of
Paris is so humorous it is sad. Joan screams and screams that she needs
back up while a few soldiers randomly knock on what must be the Paris
gates. These soldiers are so bewildered a pathetic looking they seem
more out of a Monty Python sketch than a serious film about war.<br /><br />Beyond the visual elements the only saving grace is Dustin Hoffman's
performance as the Grand Inquisitor or Conscience. It is a fine
performance from a fine actor, but it is a peculiar character. He
spends his time questioning Joan's own sanity. Could her visions in
fact be some form of psychosis or fantasy? Could crucial moments in her
life like finding a sword in a field in fact be simple coincidence?
Good questions in the history of the real Joan of Arc, but they seem
out of place here. Nowhere in the film are we led to believe Joan is
nothing but the real thing. Why bring these questions into play during
its climactic ending. The film would have worked much better believing
whole heartedly in Joan's purpose and vision. Or questioning her
visions from the beginning, a re-visioning of the myth could be very
interesting. Instead it kicks its legs out from under itself by
bringing her into question so late in the film.<br /><br />What we get in this portrayal of Joan of Arc is some pretty visuals and
a find performance from Dustin Hoffman. Try renting one of Luc Besson's
earlier films and pick up anything from Hoffman's hey day in the 70's,
they will be worth your dollar and your time far more than anything
thing to be found here.
