2000_May 21 

To be honest...I'm not a fan of institutions like the Catholic Church...I
also haven't known any prophets or saints.  If anything, I could more
easily
relate to the concepts of martyrdom and mental illness.  With that
said...I
like movies that have a point and that are meaningful.  And I don't feel
like I need to be spoon-fed &quot;the deeper meaning.&quot;  But I feel like I
missed
the point to the Messenger because the movie made almost no impact on me
in
any way other than being nice to look at.  To me, the film seemed like a
fixed fight but such is life (especially for Joan) because young Joan
seemed
a lunatic from the start.   Honestly, it appeared to me as if the film was
trying her again...but this time as a lunatic instead of a heretic.<br /><br />The Messenger was visual candy but one dimensional on many levels.  Besson
is a talented director but the Messenger was uneven.  In contrast, Carl
Dreyer's The Passion of Joan of Arc despite being 70 years older picks up
where Besson's film stops.  I don't know what Besson was actually trying
to
say about Joan of Arc because he depicted her so seemingly one-sidedly as
hysterically mad.<br /><br />I was surprised at how one-dimensional the characters were -- including
the
3 Academy Award Nominees.  John Malkovich was funny in his role but came
across as prissy spoiled brat, which I'm sure, was affectionately
accurate.
Faye Dunaway was also just a bit too overly obsessive in the scenes she
had.
Dustin Hoffman was merely condescending.  These three are some of film's
finest actors...but Besson presented their characters with too a narrow
POV
and in so made the actors themselves look bad.  One-dimensional characters
such as these are an example of bad fiction.  I didn't understand the
point
of any of the characters since they were flatter than most of the
characters
in the Hollywood Blockbusters.  Given the cast in The Messenger, I assumed
this was going to be an actor's movie but Besson, I feel, sold his
principal
actors short.

