1999_October 31 

Luc Besson enlights us with another of his movies, and this time, he tells
us a story which has been told a lot of times before, but never in his very
special style.
Powerful images of Joan's visions, and very intense, yet not overly violent
battle scenes are the main themes of the film. Connected trough Joan's
&quot;messages from God&quot;, Besson tells us the major events that led to France's
victory over England and to the crowning of King Charles (John Malkovich),
and continues with the king's betrayal of Joan, her trial for herecy and
her
brutal death at the stake. There are times in which you don't know whether
you're seeing real life events or one of Joan's visions from God. But it is
this special technique that makes this movie different and much more
interesting than another re-telling of already well-known history. And it
also gives Besson the possibility to create a mystic tension in the calm
moments and a gripping tone for the dramatic events. It is also a movie
that
leads you inside the mind of Joan, and gives you an impression of how
incredibly violent and powerful those voices were. You will understand that
she had absolutely no choice but to follow the orders she claimed to
receive.
Forget any performance you saw in the past of any young actress in any
movie, (and probably anyone of an older actress too), because Milla
Jovovich
gives a performance that will stand alone for a very long time. She is able
to literally make you feel the pain the voices in her head are causing her,
and manages to portray all kinds of feelings and expressions with an
intensity unseen before. And with Luc Besson's very special way of putting
facial expressions onto the screen (Remember Jean Reno in &quot;The
Proffessional&quot;, when he screams, before he starts his fight against Gary
Oldmans police units?), you have a combination that will leave nobody
untouched. He demands a tour-de-force performance of all his actors,
including John Malkovich, Faye Dunaway and Dustin Hoffman (you may need to
read the end credits to realize the reason of his appearance), but Milla
outdoes them all. She certainly will be one of the hottest names in
Hollywood for complexe performances after this one.<br /><br />The movie plays best in the character scenes, it is the time and place when
Besson can bring most of his visions to the screen. The battle scenes are
oppulent, but sometimes a little too heroic and idealistic, you might feel
a
little french loyalty in some of the scenes, but never in a way that
threatens the quality of the storytelling. Some in-jokes and a portion of
humour make the movie sometimes slightly corny, but it is most needed in
the
purpose of entertainment, and can easily be accepted.<br /><br />Bottom line: Luc Besson continues to make excellent movies with this
powerful adaption of a story that was brought to the screen many times
before, but never from this point of view. That and the outstanding
performance by its lead actress make this another of Besson's films that
will never be forgotten.

