2000_May 16 

The Messenger is based on a true story.  (It's worth pointing that out for
those who don't know it; otherwise, who would believe it?)  In medieval
France, an illiterate peasant girl, claiming to be guided by voices and
visions, leaves her village to become a military leader, a tragic martyr, a
national hero, and a bona fide saint.  The filmmakers succeed in offering a
plausible scenario for this odd tale as it unfolds in a desperate,
demoralized country, ruled by a frightened, disorganized elite who possess
just the right mix of gullibility, cool calculation and deference to popular
opinion.  The world of the Middle Ages--superficially so &quot;primitive&quot; and
alien to our own--comes to life in a tapestry of recognizable motivations
and personalities, and one is convinced that fundamentally society has not
&quot;advanced&quot; in the last half-millennium as much as we would like to think. 
Joan of Arc herself is portrayed as being apparently quite insane, which
lends this film a dark intensity that might appeal only to fans of the &quot;mad
genius&quot; genre.  Except, she's really not that much of genius--she's just
mad.  It's her sheer single-minded fanaticism that moves armies.  That is a
rather unsettling perspective as we ourselves leave behind a century that
has given us Hitler, Stalin, and Mao, and towards the end, the film bogs
down considerably in its very awkward but well-intentioned attempt to
address the paradox of a warrior saint.  The answer to the riddle will
likely anger Joan of Arc's modern-day admirers, be they of populist,
socialist, feminist, or French Catholic variety (I sat in stunned
indignation as the final credits rolled), but it's certainly food for
thought.  Jovovich, as Joan, does perhaps the best she can with her
character's one-dimensional fixations, but the other actors are free to be
more appealing, including the affable French actor Tcheky Karyo as the
bemused, exasperated, but loyal commander who is forced to work with Joan,
and Desmond Harrington as the prim and serious young officer who befalls a
thankless job as Joan's personal attendant.  John Malkovich is good at being
John Malkovich, which works out fine here in his role as the half-baked and
insecure Dauphin.  Overall, The Messenger may be too uneven, ponderous, and
dark for most tastes, but if you like political intrigue, brutal medieval
battles or historical soul-searching, it might be worth checking
out.
