2012_February 28 
By my standards, &#x22;must-see&#x22; films are getting to be rather rare. This
one is by all means a MUST-SEE for everyone who loves science fiction
and/or super heroes! Long before Superman, there was John Carter. Many
have very likely forgotten what a resourceful and imaginative writer
Edgar Rice Burroughs was. Most people only know he authored the
original TARZAN. The movie JOHN CARTER is based on Burroughs&#x27; novel, A
PRINCESS OF MARS, and his 1911 vision of an advanced civilization on
Mars is truly astonishing. Upon seeing this, the first question you
will likely ask is, &#x22;How is it no one has filmed this fantastic,
mind-blowing, eye-popping, compelling sci-fi adventure saga before?&#x22;
Well, there have been a few faint attempts but the true realization of
John Carter&#x27;s magnificent adventures waited patiently for the masterful
CGI wizardry of director Andrew Stanton and the 2012 resources of
Disney/Pixar. Amazingly, Mr. Stanton shot this heavily CGI-based epic
on film! According to the director, he did so simply to see what it was
like to make a movie like this on film before film is gone. The
experience apparently has made him a fan of the classic motion picture
medium and I imagine we will hear more from him on why. Of course I&#x27;m
not going to give anything away. Suffice it to say that, thankfully,
JOHN CARTER is a complete film experience: a suspenseful, dazzling
story -- efficiently and superbly told -- with dramatic and
unforgettable visuals -- and compelling, moving performances. Lynn
Collins is particularly brilliant and beguiling as the exotic and
dynamic Martian princess. Throughout the film the detail is
extraordinary and the pacing is right on the mark, relentlessly drawing
you forward into the wonder of this newly discovered, challenging,
turbulent world. What a magnificent adventure saga! Let&#x27;s put it this
way: if you liked Sinbad, you will LOVE John Carter. Thanks to a
sure-handed director, an inspired cast, and state of the art technical
people, it&#x27;s a fulfilling experience that I predict will remain with
you always -- especially if you are among the young! JOHN CARTER is the
ultimate exotic adventure; a masterpiece of cinematic action and
pacing.
