2002_June 14 

You can almost hear the pitch for this one now; &quot;It's Aliens, it's Dawn of
the Dead, it's The Thing - but with better looking actors.&quot; Apologies to
Sigourney aside, the studio execs recognise that the massively popular
games
console adventures which spawn these vehicles guarantee a return on the
investment, even if the script is as tatty as a rotting burial suit. Did
someone say Tomb Raider?<br /><br />Fans of sci-fi horror must long for the day when a story comes along that
doesn't take it's entire M.O. from the Alien series. If that's the case
they're going to be disappointed again, right down to Michelle Rodriguez'
(Rain) attempt to reprise the role of Hispanic, tough-talking Private
Vasquez from the second of those outings. Sadly, Rodriguez interpretation
of
&quot;How To Act Hard&quot; involves sporting a constant, nostrils-flared grimace
that
merely leads you to wonder which of her co-stars is suffering with chronic
flatulence.  Don't fret though, that stench is probably just the dialogue.
It is unfortunate that of all the positive elements which writer/director
Paul Anderson might have retained from the Japanese produced game version
of
Resident Evil, he chose to include a bunch of suspect one-liners that fall
as flat as if they had been directly translated from the programmers'
native
language.<br /><br />Elsewhere, the film contains all the usual music video production values we
have come to expect - slick editing, stylish slo-mo shots of spent bullet
casings spinning balletically through the air and of course, jarring
industrial sound effects crammed into every available space. Obviously
no-one was on hand to suggest the virtues of a good, eerie silence. What
few
nice atmospheric touches there are are quickly dispensed with in favour of
big action sequences featuring hordes of shuffling zombies. The undead look
fearsome enough, but feature far too frequently to remain a scary prospect
for long. They tend to appear well announced for dinner, in a fashion that
suggests that the only thing they forgot was a bottle of wine and a polite
ring of the doorbell. Any &quot;shocks&quot; generated without their assistance are
apt to come devoid of all surprise. Just listen out for the musical
crescendo preceding Milla Jovovich (Alice) wheeling around to
discover&#133;another member of the assault team standing nonchalantly behind
her. What a relief. Resident Evil does have another big baddie up it's
sleeve in the form of the mutant &quot;Licker,&quot; which crawls up and down the
walls looking like - guess what? - an Alien, and may just win the award for
most effortlessly despatched movie monster of all time. Even the films'
supposed twist, which stems from Alice's memory loss, is half-heartedly
unravelled in the first half of the action.<br /><br />So, what about the good bits? Well, Jovovich herself is the saving grace,
smouldering successfully enough to have the movies' intended game-boy
demographic fiddling overtime with their joysticks. We also get a
satisfyingly apocalyptic ending which sets things up for the next
inevitable
installment, and there's a gruesome little scene in which Rain taunts the
ravenous zombies from above with the blood dripping from her bite wound.
Overall though, this movie lacks the moments of disturbing power which
raised Andersons' previous sci-fi horror outing Event Horizon above the
average.

