2002_August 21 

Here's a thought: if you're going to make a movie about zombies, put them
in
more than two scenes. I am not a big video game buff, but I'm familiar
enough with the first two RE games to know that they were scary as hell,
had
fantastic atmosphere, and much better characters than this piece of trash.
Guys- all you had to do was stick to the games! Most of the audience has
never played them and you could have thrown in enough surprises for those
that had. There is not one suspenseful/scary/emotional scene in this big
empty glitter ball of a movie. There's also a surprising lack of gore for
a
zombie film. And the zombies themselves are laughable...not frightening.
At
some points you might be confused as to who's a zombie and who isn't
because
the human characters get about as much development as their undead
enemies.
Let's start with Alice played by Milla Jovovich. Being that she wakes up
with total amnesia, how in the hell are we supposed to give a rats ass
about
her? Just bc she looks hot in a little red dress? Give me a break. Then
there's the cookie cutter cliche group of soldiers. Note to Michelle
Rodriguez: wearing a permanent scowl and rolling your eyes halfway back
into
your head does not make you look tough... it makes you annoying. If she
made
that &quot;tough bitch&quot; face one more time in this film I was going to scream.
Eric Mabius has gone from great films (Black Circle Boys, Welcome to the
Dollhouse) to all out crap (The Crow: Salvation). Eric, you're a talented
boy... stop sinking so low.<br /><br />What is redeeming about this movie? Not a damn thing. The special effects
are horrid, the zombies look lame, and there is no sense of dread or
danger
that the games handle so masterfully. What's the most tragic is that this
movie had so much potential. Instead of sticking to its source material
they
decided to make a horrible little genre pic and stick the RE name on it.
Oh,
and the film boasts one the single most irritating commentary track you'll
ever hear. At one point the director says this isn't a zombie movie. Then
Mr. Anderson, you should have let someone who thought it was take the
reigns
of the film bc it's based on A ZOMBIE GAME. And I have completely lost all
respect for the very unintelligent Ms. Jovovich who doesn't even
understand
how a commentary works until twenty minutes into the whole thing. In a
word:
insipid. Look it up. If I dislike the movie before the commentary, I HATED
it afterwards.<br /><br />Few so-called horror films have ever been this uncreative... and given
some
of the garbage that's come out lately that's a hard thing to achieve. The
bottom line is the movie is not scary. You can throw in the train from
RE2... you can plaster some walls with Umbrella logo... hell, give us a
few
undead dobermans... but that a good RE film does not make. There is no
tension, creepy atmosphere, or any believable threat. Fans of the game
should skip this travesty. Those unfamiliar with it should not expect
anything more than your typical Hollywood, soul-less, no IQ horror/action
film. It's too bad original director George Romero wasn't behind the
camera.
Oh, what might have been...
