2002_March 27 

Just when I'm getting immersed in the story, the movie is over!
&quot;Resident Evil&quot; easily holds the title for the best &quot;video game movie&quot;
(which isn't hard to do).  Apparently, Paul Anderson didn't ignore what
video game fans didn't like about the movie version of &quot;Mortal Kombat&quot;.
But
he basically took a crappy script for RE and modified it to be coherent
with
the video game storyline.  He did a decent job, but RE still can only be
considered &quot;good, for a video game movie&quot;.  One negative aspect is that
many
of the plot elements that were developed over the span of four video games
(over 12 hours of game time) are quickly introduced in the movie.  The
buildup becomes too redundant for RE fans, and too confusing and slow for
newcomers.  Alice, the main character, is never developed enough for us to
really have any reason to care about her.  There are glimpses about who
she
is that build interest, but are not explored enough.  In the games, the
characters always still had a mystery that was not explained at the end,
but
the character was developed enough that the player felt they knew the
character. Unfortunately, this isn't the case with the movie.  The music
also wasn't as effective as the music in the games (especially
RE2).<br /><br />On the plus side, the movie does do some things the games never did.
The
movie made me more truly feel the terror of seeing a person eaten alive by
zombies (this is a great zombie flick).  The movie also has many
references
to the games, and begins to explain some parts of the existing plot.  This
is the first video game movie that at least looks like its makers have
actually taken the time to play the video game.  But the most exciting
part
is the end!  Just when it's getting really good, it's over.  It's like
it's
only Disc 1 of the movie.  There had better be a sequel, or this movie
will
end up being just another &quot;video game movie&quot;.  As long as Capcom doesn't
decide to contradict the storyline with future games, and the new script
follows from this movie, the sequel will make this movie better, and it
will
be a sweet movie itself.
