2003_June 28 

Final Score: 5.5 (out of 10)<br /><br />The Playstation game 'Resident Evil, was so atmostpheric, cinematic and
downright scary that it begged to be made into a movie. Video game movies
have a rap for being bad and it's true. Most of them are. Of course, most of
them are written and directed by unimaginative hacks and constructed in
studio boardrooms to shake some cash out of the kids who play the games. In
the event some talent comes onto the project - like Simon West for my
favorite VG movie to date 'Tomb Raider' - we get a pretty decent popcorn
flick. The problem is this Paul &quot;W.S.&quot; Anderson guy (not to be confused with
the brilliant Paul Thomas Anderson) seems to have cornered the market on
making video games into movies - bad movies. The guy is a hack who couldn't
direct his way out of a paper bag. He's given a promising set-up from the
games and before it's all over Anderson will reduce our crisp atmospheric
story into a cheap trainwreck of quick editing and flashing lights - just as
he did with 'Event Horizon'. <br /><br />On one level I understand Anderson's thinking. The games were based on
George Romano's 'Night of the Living Dead' so a 'Resident Evil' movie is
essentially a remake of NotLD. So he apparently decided the &quot;better&quot; way to
go would be to dump the horror and turn this movie a glossy, techno action
flick. At first it seems alright. The movie is the 2nd act of 'Resident Evil
2' - a high tech underground facility is producing a zombie virus, virus
gets out, crew become zombies. The first few minutes are the most well done
of the movie. We actually feel a little for the doomed crew (we hear one
asking another for a date). Then we get the now stock head-stuck-in-the-elevator-doors
gag and it's all downhill from there. <br /><br />Well, that's not true, he has a few decent gags here and there: a bit
involving a grid of lasers, a flashback sequence that makes no sense but
looks good and a nifty final shot. The best scene in the movie involves
Jojovich and a pack of zombie dogs. She jump-kicks one in the face. The bit
is so absurd, it's fun. If the rest of the movie were like this and didn't
take itself so seriously we might have something here. The acting is as
B-movie as it comes all the way around. The script is rock bottom. The
single best thing about 'Resident Evil' is Marilyn Manson and Marco
Beltrami's thumping, driving techno score. That coupled with those few
decent scenes makes this Anderson's best movie and the second best video
game movie to date... but that is not saying much at all. It's still trash.

