2003_August 14 

I quite liked the Resident Evil games. They were scary and highly
atmospheric. Not *excellent* games, but still very good. This film, on the
other hand, is horrible. I think the main problem is that no-one takes
computer games (interactive art, to me) seriously. &quot;Oh, it's just a computer
game!&quot; most people think. But computer games have come a long, long way
since the times of Pacman and Tetris. Many computer games have deep,
compelling storylines, great atmosphere, and can stand shoulder to shoulder
with other works of art. Computer games are not all action. That's a very
very wrong perception that way too many people share.
Resident Evil is not an action game. Therefore, the film based upon it
should logically not be an action film. And yet it is. And on top of that,
it's an action film with horribly cheap and boring action
sequences.
The film is bad on so many levels that I can't even describe it. The
camerawork is a disaster. Far too many closeups, combined with horrible
editing, give us a sense of complete confusion. Not only that, half the time
it's impossible to tell what exactly is happening, because the movie doesn't
show it. If you're making an action film, that's a really really bad idea.
But this movie suffers from even more problems. The writing sucks, and
despite the presence of a couple of good actors, the characters are just not
interesting. The structure of the plot is terrible - there is barely any
increase in tension, people just get butchered the one after the other. The
climax is also nothing special at all. What's even worse, the movie does not
convey a sense of place or of a logical sequence of events. In one scene the
characters are fighting a ton of zombies (which look ridiculous) and in the
next they're in an entirely different room, without the movie having told us
how they actually got there. The movie is lacking in structure.
The music... I shouldn't even mention it. I know that many people today
enjoy listening to music which consists of three sounds being looped, but
for a horror movie, this is the wrong soundtrack.
The sets were actually quite good, but I don't think they were right for
this movie. They should've set it in a mansion, and made it gothic. That
works so much better for horror movies.
And they stole a scene from Cube, which was a much better movie (and not a
horror movie). I guess this movie is to the games what Hypercube is to Cube:
something that has a plot which somehow slightly resembles the original, but
was created by people who didn't understand what the original was about.
Terrible. I was willing to give director Paul W.S. Anderson another chance,
despite his movie Event Horizon being absolutely abysmal, but after this -
forget it. It's not even worth renting on DVD.
