2002_March 21 

I been playing Resident Evil games forever now. I own all four games
including the original version that came out in 1995. I must say I enjoyed
the movie. I was entertained for 2 hrs, but it is clear Paul Anderson
intended the movie to be for the younger audience. I liked the fact that the
movie stood true to the game's story line with the exception of it's main
character's but that did not bother me. What bothered me was the fact that I
didn't jump once while watching the film, and not once did I get goosebumps.
Horror? play the video games, those scare the hell out of me. This movie had
techno and rock music playing in the background while funny looking zombie's
are on screen looking to bite people. The zombie's are not scary at all,
compared to George Romero's zombies, those were creepy, even John Landis'
Zombies in the Micheal Jackson video Thriller looked creepier. Not once do
you see the zombies in Resident Evil tearing flesh on rotting corpses. Watch
Dawn of the Dead , and you'll see what I mean. I expected to be disturbed by
this movie, like the games do to me, but unfortunatly not the case.<br /><br /> What's good about the movie is the story, decent acting by the sexy Milla,
she's mint, as well as my favorite sexy gangsta chick Michelle Rodriguez.
Too bad there's no S.T.A.R.S. members, like Wesker, Barry, Jill or Chris,
but the screenplay is very similar to the game. Keys needed to access
different parts of the lab, the crows, the lickers, security code's ,and
even a sewer scene. All true Resident Evil fan's know a RE game is not an RE
game without a Sewer level of some sort. Looks like there will be a sequel,
This time the setting will be the street's of Raccoon city, like Resident
Evil 3 &quot;Nemesis&quot; which is actually part 2 in the game series. I hope it is
creepier, and scarier, and bloodier, because if the video game's have mature
ratings to keep it away from minors, then the movie which is rated R should
not be intended for the young audience as well.
