2007_June 4 
My suggestions to the film, Forrest Gump review are about the irony of
this story, the setting, the characterization, the plot, and the theme.
I thought this movie tells us about everyone&#39;s life and my opinion of
this movie was that I liked it very much and it is very enjoyable to
watch. You won&#39;t get bored and the plot of the movie always develops.
In the movie Forrest Gump, the setting is rather weird because it is
set in a small fictional town in Alabama. That is where Forrest starts.
Later in the movie the story takes place in the whole world. This means
that he represents every human being. The time setting is between the
1950s and 1980s. This time was important to the U.S. history because it
was after the World War II and it was a new start for the people of the
United Sates of America. Another example of everybody or universal is
the character Tom Hanks. Tom Hanks plays Forrest Gump. I think he is a
very good actor and the role suits him. When Forrest Gump was a little
child he had polio and a low level of IQ. His IQ was around 70. He
lived with his mom in a big farm outside the town. They had no money so
Forrest&#39;s mother used their big house as a hotel. On the first day of
school, he met Jenny. Forrest thought she was a nice-looking young girl
and fell in love. Another important point of him is that he had polio
and everyone rejected him except for Jenny. He had polio as he was born
and it is when the legs aren&#39;t strong enough to hold you and he had to
wear braces. Sally Fields plays Mrs. Gump, she is Forrest&#39;s mother and
cares a great deal about Forrest. After Forrest grows old she got a
sickness and died with an old age after Forrest becomes popular. She
was a very good mother to Forrest. Robin Wright as Jenny lives alone
with her father in a very small house also outside of the town and her
father abuses her very often so she tries to stay away from the house
as long as possible. In the movie, Gary Sinise plays Lt. Dane. He was a
super realistic character, meaning that he was almost too realistic for
this movie. He plays his role really well and my opinion to him is that
he is the best actor from this movie. Bubba, he is a fascinating
unrealistic character. Myketti Williamson plays Bubba in the movie and
was the best friend of Forrest in the movie. He is the meaning of true
friendship. The one thing that is unrealistic is that Forrest Gump
cannot meet all the presidents of America and all the celebrities that
he saw in the movie and run around the world without any reason. It is
rather a symbolic meaning. The plot of this movie is very interesting.
As time passes the plot development raised always higher and higher.
One of the themes of this movie is that the main character, Forrest
Gump, represents everybody&#39;s life. One of the quotes that he said was
&quot;life is like a box of chocolates.&quot; It simply means that you will never
know what will happen in life because you never know what piece of
chocolate you will take out. Sometimes you take a good one out or
sometimes you take one out you don&#39;t like that much. The other
interesting quote was &quot;stupid is as stupid does.&quot; This quote&#39;s
significance means that you should not judge someone on their
reputation but on their actions or it is stupid to call people stupid.
This movie was a really good movie. I would rate it really high because
the plot of this movie is really interesting and the director must have
really thought about it. It would be a really hard movie to make. I
think Forrest Gump is a movie that everyone has to watch because you
will see how everyone&#39;s life is like. The plot is really interesting
because it has a big increase all the time. I like that the plot
development of this movie was like this. I really recommend this film
to everyone.
