2002_September 18 

&quot;You have to do the best with what god gave you.&quot;
Forrest's mother says to him when she is dying and this
inspiring
sentence is just one of many mssages of this brilliant
film.
The film is story of Forrest Gump a boy who comes up from a tough
childhood
and becomes an american football star,war hero (and  is given
Congressional
Medal of Honor),world ping-pong champion,shrimp-boat captain and
tycoon.
Forrest is not a man with individually rosy panorama.Born in
rustic Alabama,he has a bad crooked back and a low IQ.He
does
have a few things good.A capable mother,a girlfriend ,a heart of gold and
a
perfect soul.
There is one important factor in his life.his love for the first and the
only  truelove: Jenny.He knows the meaning of  love better  than those who
think he is stupid.The feeling he has for Jenny is one of the best human
sentiments he has known.In a scene in which Forrest has just saved her
from
a gang of deviants,that she demands him leave her he answers:&quot;I can't help
it.I love you&quot;.She
says:&quot;You don't know what love is.&quot; and nonetheless he knows
more about it than she does.As in another scene Forrest himself
says:&quot;I'm
not a smart man but I know what love is&quot;.
There are  great melodramatic sequences in film that tarry long in
memory.When Jenny revisits his father's house and throws rocks at it in
fury. The scene that Forrest and Jenny have hidden in farm and she is
praying to become a bird and fly away.Or where he hears about his
son,mixed
with his happiness is dismaying fright that his son is not smart too.<br /><br />A lot has been said about magnificent special effects of the film
but
these are obscured by the pure humanity of the story.
Nevertheless special effects are still really stunning.Zemeckis
impeccably interweaves Hanks into original footage of U.S
presidents and events of the era.The miracle of computer
graphics.<br /><br />Tom Hanks always can be counted on to give a strong performance but the
role
of Forrest works well for him.I was impressed by Hanks portrayal of
Forrest.He was so passionate in Forrest Gump and deserved the Oscar for
that.His mannerism , intonation and narration were all perfect.He reminds
me
Behrooz Vosooghi in Sootehdelaan(directed by Ali Hatami).<br /><br />Robert Zemeckis shrewd direction gives this masterful actor
the
tools he needs and his direction is quite intelligent.
Robin Wright as Jenny is fascinating and remarkable here.She
is
beleivable as the object of Forrest's perpetual affection.
Another strong supporting actor is Gary Sinise as captain
Dan.He
gives a naturalistic and breathtaking performance.
The story is also one of the stars and script is flawless.It'll be
difficult for you to lose the interest in the film.
Music by Alan Silvestri is smooth and haunting.
I just can't say enough about this film.Everything was very
good.
It would take more than one viewing to notice everything.
When I was watching the film I was carried away.It had me
alternately laughing and crying and in some scenes doing both
concurrently.<br /><br />The adventures that Forrest undergoes become very familiar
and
make our sympathy with him stronger.My experience watching
Forrest Gump provided me with a pleasant mixture of
instruction and amusement.It stole my heart in a way that
other
flims could not reach,
So if daily contests are menacing to drag you under and if the toils
of life are breaking you down,there is a film out there that can
enliven you.Because Forrest Gump is an energizer for those
who
have jaded hearts and spirits.

