2005_September 3 
In the film Forrest Gump, Tom Hanks actually plays allegory and
myth-in-the-making (aka history) as a &quot;slow&quot; individual floating
through the decades. The cinematists used this technique of &quot;history
personified&quot; uniquely to full effect in this film. No other film has
gotten away with such an entertaining stroll through the years. Not
necessarily to be taken literally; this film was so lauded (possibly
unknowingly) for its seamless ability to compartmentalize and package
the most recent years of American history up to 1994. Much like the
writing of a history textbook, we watch the years unfold as Forrest
Gump glides through the ups and downs, stoic to the signs of the times.<br /><br />Though the film also tells the stories of Jenny, Lt. Dan, Bubba, and
Momma, it is Forrest through which we see the world. Though each of
these characters *(and the many lesser characters) who come in contact
with Forrest each have their own some what negative first response to
him, they each, in surrender, are redeemed. Much like each person's
relation with history. In the end it is Forrest sitting alone on a rock
in a small town Mississippi once again alone. For alone, history sits
on a rock in small town Mississippi watching his son ride the bus to
kindergarten.<br /><br />Through this lens, all the devices of the film take on new meaning.
Forrest's sporadic television appearances and brushes with celebrity
are in fact their own brushes with history. While many films use a
boy-girl love relationship as a centerpiece around which to build
elaborate stages, here the relationship of love is wrapped around the
passage of time. History loves you and history survives you. History is
slow and history is a minimalist. The feather device is yet another
metaphor for history but one which would not have connected with the
audience nearly as much as Tom Hanks. Tom Hanks is the feather, the
loose leaf, the page from the Curious George book. Our myth/history set
free in the wind yet marked by the past; the pages of our lives.
