2002_May 18 

Some moral high grounders were up in arms over this film because of the
depictions of sex, violence, drugs etc in it. Yes, the sleazy side of life
features heavily in Forrest Gump but the film laughs at it. The film does
not make out that there's anything admirable about sexual perversion,
violence, heavy drinking or drug taking. Forrest always knows the right
things to say and do and although he might not be too bright he is a better
person than many of the people he encounters. He shuns the sleazy side of
life (although in some ways he doesn't fully understand it) and this is
symbolised in the scene when he pushes the hooker away when she tries to
make love to him. Jenny poses for Playboy, plays the guitar naked in a
perverts' club, takes drugs but Forrest is there for her as her gallant
protector and moral guardian. Forrest is also only violent under extreme
provocation such as in the scene with Wesley. Wesley sees Forrest in his
army uniform and calls him a baby-killer but like many holier-than-thou
pacifists Wesley is at heart a violent person who hits Jenny. Forrest duly
lays into him and if this scene is violent it's no worse than the handsome
hero in an old silent film giving the villain a good thrashing for what he's
done to the heroine. Forrest is pleasant to everyone, be they people on the
street or US Presidents. He speaks sadly about President Kennedy and John
Lennon being shot. Also, he is awarded the Congressional Medal of Honour not
for killing or destroying the enemy in Vietnam but for saving the lives of
other soldiers at great personal risk to himself. He is a decent guy who is
successful in life and the film is not patronising to handicapped people as
some people have said. The portrayal of the single parent family has also
been criticised but frankly the message here is &quot;always be nice to your
Momma&quot;. It is a feel good movie and although life from the 60s to the 80s
may not always have been great this film show it in a positive light. Some
scenes remind you of Midnight Cowboy and I think this is intentional.
However Midnight Cowboy was a downbeat movie made at the end of the cynical
60s. This is a pleasant upbeat film. It is incidentally very different from
Winston Groom's book and I think it is better than the book. The only thing
I would have changed about the film  is that I wouldn't have had Jenny die
at the end. To conclude, funny, heartwarming, original and
brilliant.
