2006_September 17 
I think that this is without doubt one of the true classics in the
world of movies. This is an idealistic story of moral and compassion,
it teaches compassion to your loved ones, goodness and honesty. All of
this is presented by one boy growing up to be a successful man.
Successful not only in the meaning of financial success, but success in
life as well. When I think of the movie, I often think of Forrest not
as a man, like other characters in movies, but as an idea of life. A
pure sense of life created into a fantastic person.<br /><br />What I like the most about Forrest is that he has an unfailing ability
to do things right, on purpose or not, no matter what people might
think of him, or what outcome it could have been. Nothing is trivial to
him, nothing is too pointless for him to do something about, on the
other hand things like image and others opinion about him is not
remotely important to him. His in many ways childish behavior, gives
him a mystic touch of innocence. This pure way of life, makes us want
to be more like him, to be more caring about others, and makes us see
what we really should treasure in life. He contains great wisdom from
his mother, and his love for Jenny is pure, as well as his friendship
with Bubba and all of his friends even after they have all passed
on.Tom Hanks delivers an exceptional performance and deserves the Oscar
completely, he captures the nature of Forrest Gump amazingly and gives
this movie heart and soul. The other actors/actresses also makes
outstanding performances, Robin as Jenny touches us deeply with her
tragic story and her kindness, which walks hand ind hand with her
suffering. Gary Sinise is simply fantastic, I can not imagine Lt. Dan
as anyone else, he is simply hilarious and thoughtful at the same time(
By the way I have to give the special effects crew credit for their
work on his legs ). Basically every actor who appears on the screen
does an exceptional job. The director too uses every possible technique
to capture the moral and feelings on the screen, and the details keep
emerging for each time you see this movie. All in all a true
masterpiece providing comedy, drama, a bit of action and most of all a
pure sense of happiness and warmth. It makes you think about the big
questions of life, and you decide for yourself how to translate the
messages and symbols of this movie. For those of you who either did not
understand this movie or have not yet seen it , you should go and watch
or re-watch it as soon as possible. Enjoy, this is one of my all time
favorites. 9/10
