2001_March 26 

There's something of a tradition in fiction of using the idiot savant to
hold the mirror up to society and reflect its foibles. The figure of the
Good Soldier Schweik was one I remember being introduced to in my early
years at university. Forrest Gump is also a soldier for much of this
picture's duration, but the satire is diluted to no more than a few bum and
fart jokes in the presence of the great and the good.<br /><br />Maybe it's this evasiveness that caused this film to attract such a storm of
criticism from the Left when it first appeared. Seven years on, it's hard to
see the film's reluctance to take on biting social satire as something it
deserved to be damned for. More likely, it's the film's unflattering
portrayal of the counter culture of the sixties that made its baby boomer
critics touchy. For the most part, it's a gentle and appealingly whimsical
picture. Australian - and more particularly, Melbourne - viewers will
recognize in it something of the spirit of Michael Leunig's cartoons. In
keeping with this spirit is the one aspect of this film that could be
regarded as controversial, which is its scepticism toward causes.<br /><br />Tom Hanks is excellent. It says something about the rest of the world's
stereotypes about American culture that one of America's biggest movie stars
can hold the screen for hour after hour while remaining the most
self-effacing of actors. There is charm and real emotion in his performance.
If the film sometimes veers into sentimentality (and it does) it is not
Hanks' fault. <br /><br />The film isn't a masterpiece. As I say, it does sometimes lapse into
sentimentality, and it annoys me that, like Rain Man, it can't acknowledge
disability without conferring on its disabled characters superhuman talents
of one kind or another. And, as I'm sure others have pointed out, the trick
shots involving Gump's encounters with various historical personages had
already been done - to much sharper comic effect - by Woody Allen in Zelig.
However, for me the film's greatest specific failing is that it doesn't do
more with the character of Gump's love, Jenny, who doesn't do much more in
this film than turn up every half hour or so and look beautiful. I thought
there was scope there to explore the nature of their mutual dependence more
deeply, and to illuminate both characters in the process. To some extent
this does happen with the character of Lieutenant Dan, a nicely drawn
character who provides the right sort of counterweight to
Gump.<br /><br />I don't expect that I will want to see this film again and again, the way I
keep going back to Leunig's cartoons, which have a kind of natural
wisdom-in-innocence that Zemeckis' film sometimes visibly strains to
achieve. It's not a film that particularly goes anywhere, not that it really
means to. But, a little to my surprise, I did enjoy watching it.

