2003_January 16 

When watching this film, you just have to let yourself get caught up in
the
movie itself. Looking at the unrealistic aspects of it and critizising
them
won't allow you to get the full affect of the movie. It is just a story.
An
illogical one that could never have happened in real life, but if you
accept
it as being true and let yourself get caught up in it, the story becomes
incredible. The story combined with the outstanding acting by the five
main
characters (Gump, Jenny, Bubba, Lt. Dan, and Momma) shows the influence of
major historical events on our society. But it shows it through the eyes
of
a person that doesn't recognize the importance of each of them. The other
characters are affected a great deal. Vietnam killed Bubba. It nearly
killed
Lt. Dan, but instead sent him into a depression that only Gump's naiveness
could have saved him from. And of course Jenny might have been the most
influenced of all. She represented an abused child, a runaway, a hippy, a
drug addict, a slut, and the aids virus. This girl probably went straight
to
hell when she died but Gump couldn't see her faults.  He was in love,
which
was the only thing that affected him throughout the movie. Nothing else
really mattered to him in the end. He cared for people that cared for him,
or that he thought cared for him. He did things for his friends that none
of
us would ever do because we would be looked at as stupid or crazy. He
bought
a shrimping boat because of a promise he made to Bubba. What kind of moron
would buy a shrimping boat if he had never done any shrimping before in
his
life. Forrest Gump did and he eventually became a rich man because he
didn't
know any better. For those of you that don't like this movie, you're
looking
at it the wrong way.  From what I've heard people either love it or hate
it.
I love it and apparently most other film critics do if it won best
picture.
Pulp Fiction is one of my favorite movies and so is Shawshank. They were
both incredible and unforgettable. But they weren't quite as good as
Forrest
Gump.
