2004_July 29 

Wow,it has been ten years ago........<br /><br />By the time &quot;Forrest Gump&quot; swept most of the major 1994 Academy
Awards,it had already become the third-highest grossing film of all
time,as well as a genuine pop phenomenon embracing best selling
books,gnomic catch phrases,and reams of commentary on the editorial
pages of magazines and newspapers throughout the world. It has already
broken box office records worldwide and stands behind great cinema
classics like &quot;Raiders Of The Lost Ark&quot;,&quot;E.T.&quot;,&quot;Titanic&quot;,&quot;The Lion
King&quot;,and so many more. Even through its distribution of its market
through DVD and video,it has grossed even more domestic wealth and
still holds that mark as of today,even after its release more than ten
years ago. Clearly,a great event,FORREST GUMP,is a great film and a
great piece of cinematic magic within itself. It has the form of an
epic that goes within the boundaries of depth and resonance;the
trappings of satire without a coherent attitude,and the semblance of
historical revisionism without a critical sensibility. To paraphrase
the screenplay,FORREST GUMP,may not be a smart film,but it knows what
love is-its dim-witted protagonist,as expertly portrayed by Tom
Hanks,has captured the love of millions,which by the way made Tom
Hanks,the Jimmy Stewart of our generation. <br /><br />Despite its limitations,FORREST GUMP has charm to spare,thanks to an
enduring central performance by Tom Hanks,as well as a series of
irresistibly playful historical tableau's achieved with unprecedented
verisimilitude by the computer-savvy artists at George Lucas'
Industrial Light and Magic. Although fictional protagonists have been
made to interact with historical figures in CITIZEN KANE and
ZELIG,FORREST GUMP represents a technological breakthrough.
Unfortunably it is also far less thoughtful than these illustrious
processors,and at times seems nearly as simple minded as its
protagonist. While FORREST GUMP stands out as a break taking cinematic
masterpiece,it is a remarkably brilliant one through various scenes as
it follows the character through three decades of turmoil which begins
with his upbringing in rural Greenbow,Alabama through various events
that featuring computerized images of Governor George Wallace,President
Kennedy at the White House,and his meeting with President Johnson as
Forrest receives the Medal Of Honor for bravery during his turmoil in
Vietnam and that continues throughout as he joins a ping-pong team that
takes a tour of China and his meeting with President Nixon,and
accidentally uncovers the Watergate break-in of the 1970's. However,its
vision of the Vietnam War,for example,is constructed not from
historical memory,but by means of a deft deployment of clich&eacute;s drawn
from the most prominent movies that display the Vietnam War in
general(examples from such films as Apocalypse Now,The Deer
Hunter,Coming Home,Platoon,and Born On The Fourth Of July).<br /><br />Indeed,director Robert Zemeckis's period recreations depend more on the
music of that period than any other visual sense of time and place:once
the wall to wall soundtrack of the period kicks in which contains hits
from various groups from the 1960's and early 1970's. The characters
here are very well supportive with outstanding performances from
actresses Sally Field,and Robin Wright-Penn to actor Gary Sinise's
portrayal of Lt. Dan,who does a fair impression of Willem Dafoe from
two Oliver Stone films;PLATOON(with legs)and BORN ON THE FOURTH OF JULY
(without as a paraplegic)to a supportive acting from Mykelti Williamson
as Forrest's best friend Bubba. Although Winston Groom's original novel
contains some astringent satire,the film's version settles for gentle
jabs at racism and the military. Unusually vague it is attitude towards
the events and its depicts,FORREST GUMP went on the sweep the Oscars
for Best Picture,Best Director(Robert Zemeckis),Best Actor(Tom Hanks),
Best Adapted Screenplay(Eric Roth),and Best Supportive Actor(Gary
Sinise),and still went on the become one of the biggest moneymaking
films of 1994.<br /><br />Even after ten years,it is still embraced by several national figures
as a celebration of traditional values and a condemnation of the 1960's
counterculture. In many ways,the film still represents old-fashioned
Hollywood liberalism where racists are wrong,war is hell,assassinations
are bad,and it's good to be nice--even if the world is different from
various places. Still,the films a lot of heart and a lot of guts and
brains to make it possible. Congradulations on your 10th Anniversary--
FORREST GUMP.

