2010_December 27 
Forrest Gump is a 1994 American film based on a novel by Winston Groom
,the genre of film is comedy Drama and Robert Zemeckis is the director
of film. The main actors are Tom Hanks ,Robin Wright and Gary Sinisie
.the film was nominated for thirteen Oscars and swept six of them
including ,best leading actor Tom Hanks, best director ,best film
editing ,best picture, best visual effects and best adapted screenplay.
The film in box office could take near $ 700, 000,000 worldwide. The
film is production of Paramount pictures. Summary and plot A man with
low IQ waiting in a bus station tells his life story to a women sitting
near him. he recounts all events in his life , about his mother ,his
military service ,being sent to Vietnam ,saving his commander &#x27;s life
and coming back home like a hero ,he remembers visiting some presidents
of the US ,and getting rich in shrimping industry. he finds his lost
love , jenny but he is too stupid to understand the importance of his
action in his life. Making films about retarded people is not a new
case, at least we have three movies which theirs heroes are people with
problem in IQ Forrest Gump, Rain Man and I am Sam .the common fact
about three films starring success to taking awards. the director
Robert Zemeckis made one on of the his best films in his career and tom
Hanks played one of the most praised acting in the world. Forrest joins
to the army randomly and without seeking to be hero becomes a national
hero similarly when he plays ping pong he doesn&#x27;t have any motives ,we
can see this when he goes to university ,In Beijing ,china , Forrest
saves Mao from drowning . Forrest Gump has several messages, some of
which are less obvious than the others. The most frequently recurring
theme is not to give up on life. Why surrender when you don&#x27;t know what
lies ahead? By contrasting Forrest&#x27;s life with the lives of those
around him, and by showing how the passage of time brings solace to
even the most embittered hearts, the movie underlines this point. Tom
hanks was the only actor who could play this role , after watching the
film I can&#x27;t imagine somebody other than Tom hanks could show this
modesty ,outspoken simplicity as he did. The film is the mixture of
tragedy and comedy and lots of significant truths are hidden in it.
Forrest Gump has lots of memorable quotes for example &#x22;I am not a smart
man ,but I know what love is &#x22; or &#x22; stupid is as stupid does &#x22; !
