2002_May 2 

Forrest Gump (1994) Rating: 10/10<br /><br />Tom Hanks is undeniably an incredibly gifted actor, and this is his best
performance. In Forrest Gump, he creates an unforgettable character,
arguably the most memorable of the 90s. Forrest, Forrest Gump is a good
natured guy who only has one weakness: he's a little slower than average.
But in many ways, he's superior to most so-called &quot;normal&quot; people. You
rarely see a man with so much enthusiasm and good will! His great
personality added to the undying love of his mother (Sally Field at her
best) helped to give him an unbelievable life, filled with memories. And as
the film begins, Gump, sitting on his bench with a box of chocolates, tells
strangers his fascinating story. The film's ingenious script has him
involved in every major American event from the 50s to the 80s. He meets
everyone from Elvis to John Lennon, from Kennedy to Nixon. Star quarterback
in college and world champion Ping-Pong player some years later, he even
finds the time to go fight for his country in Vietnam. Perfect example of
the American Dream, the simple little boy who even achieves to become
godzillionaire!<br /><br />Just then, director Robert Zemeckis and Hanks would have accomplish a great
task, namely telling their country's recent history through the eyes of a
simple man, putting everything under a new, uncynical light. But the film
also contains one of the most touching of love stories between Forrest and
his lifelong love Jenny. She might have been a &quot;normal&quot; kid, but she didn't
have it as easy as her buddy. After a traumatizing childhood thanks to an
abusive father, Jenny goes through all the downsides and fake hopes of that
same Dream, from strip clubs to thankless waitress jobs. And in the midst
of
that, she follows the traces of Timothy Leary and gets into San Francisco's
acid culture, go hippie and protest war and even end up snorting coke in
70s
discos. But Forrest still looks after her, and they have the sweetest
moments together...<br /><br />Zemeckis sure can be proud of his Oscar-winning work. While telling a
deeply
involving story that walks the thin line between drama and comedy, he
shoots
countless references to events and people. Even though none of them lasts
much more than 15 minutes or so, each of Gump's &quot;adventures&quot; feels like a
movie of its own. Just take the riveting war sequences, or the man's 3
year-long run. Zemeckis directs his cast perfectly. Besides Tom
&quot;two-Oscars-in-a-row&quot; Hanks, there's the talented Robin Wright as the
lovable if flawed Jenny (who I can't believe wasn't even nominated for an
Oscar), Gary Sinise as the intense Lieutenant Dan and Mykelti Williamson
(whoever that is) as Forrest's shrimp-lovin' war buddy Bubba. The
soundtrack
by itself is incredible, covering pretty much all the important music over
30 years, and Alan Silvestri's score is restrained but efficient at
underlining the film's emotional core. There's only one word to truly
describe Forrest Gump: magical.
