2005_September 19 
Yep, yep, yep... that's how it was back then. This is THE movie for
anyone who went to high school in the seventies, say from 1974 - '79,
if you're looking for some nostalgic trip back to your high school
years. And also, anyone curious about those years, say to compare to
your high school years in the eighties. Director Linklater put together
a super cast, most of whom went on to at least fine character role
careers. Hauser, here as the charismatic Benny (also a bigot in a
deleted scene) is only now attempting to jump start a leading man
career. We all know what Affleck &amp; McConaughey went on to (lousy
leading man careers). Both play creeps in this pic, and these remain
possibly their best roles - something of a revelation now. Jovovich &amp;
Posey came close to being big time starlets years later. Cochrane &amp;
Goldberg provide most of the biting humor, as they would continue to do
in other films. London, in the central BMoC role, enjoyed a girlish fan
following for several years. One exception is Sasha Jenson, for some
reason, who sort of disappeared, despite a standout performance. This
film has developed into the &quot;American Graffiti&quot; for the seventies
grunge generation and has by now attained near-classic status.<br /><br />The pic captures the aimlessness, the grungy feel of the teenagers back
then. This was at a time when many parents were pursuing their own
interests, whether at work or play, mostly leaving the kids to their
own devices (as opposed to previous decades, when the typical nuclear
family was composed of stay-at-home moms and working dads whose focus
was somehow 100% on the offspring). When some parents do appear in this
film, it's almost jarring, like they don't really belong here. In the
seventies, by mid-teens (15-16 yrs.old), kids were kind of expected to
get drunk and stay out half the night. Oh, and smoke the weed, of
course. And this was before the materialistic eighties, when American
society shifted all of its focus on money and acquisition. Near the
end, when London's character expresses his dissatisfaction with his
current state of affairs as a football jock/king at school, you get the
impression he's in for a brutal wake up call in the next decade. Then
again, he might have become a stockbroker or something (oops, didn't a
lot of them jump out of windows in the next few years?).<br /><br />It's an interesting mind game a viewer can play, guessing where all
these dazed teens will end up in the eighties and onward. But, the main
thrill is just immersing yourself in that time frame, which the film
just oozes out of every frame. I still remember a T-Shirt I had towards
the end of that decade; it read &quot;the fifties were grease; the sixties
were grass; the seventies are gross.&quot; But after the seventies,
everything and everyone still managed to somehow lose their character.
Go figure.
