2000_May 25 

This film's massive cult following has led to the recent rise in marijuana
use among teens. At least in the small town I hail from. The film does
depict a carefree, consequence free and nostalgic look on an era of casual
drug use. As a high school teacher, I have heard more than one fan say &quot;I
wish I could go back to that year, it is certainly a more innocent time.&quot;
The jaded side of me would absolutely relish Linkletter making a sequel to
this film and re-examining these characters thirty years or so later as
they
confront the ultimate choices of their lives and maybe even meet their
offspring behaving the way they did. These characters, like most teenagers
(I certainly remember my years) are all pretty much hedonistic, self
centered and consumer based individuals. I really would like to see what
happened to them as they matured and became producers. Would their lives
mirror mine? Probably most definitely.Anyway, that weak moralizing aside,
Dazed and Confused is a great movie that focuses on character, situation
and
setting as opposed to any real plot. There is no great conflict and
therefore no real resolution to its narrative. In fact, because he refuses
to judge his characters, Linkletter allows them to truly live in the
unnamed
Texas town. Like his earlier film Slacker, Linkletter simply allows the
film to evolve without any impositions of classic storytelling. He wants
his
characters to tell their stories on their own terms. Scenes happen as
opposed to beginning with any set pattern.  His camera is so completely
neutral that it manages a near documentary feeling in creating honest and
personal spaces. He avoids the whip lash editing so many of his peers love
in favor of long, loopy and dreamy takes. Scenes are funny not because of
snappy, slogan filled one liners like so many other teen flicks are, they
work because they set up truthfull situations that the characters can
honestly respond to: moments sketched exactly out of the hormone driven
evolutionary soup that is high school.The film is also extremely
economical. There really isn't a wasted scene. Linkletter also doesn't bow
completely to the audience: there isn't a tacked on nudey sex scene or all
out violent episode. Such inclusions would be exploitive and common-
qualities this film avoids. The film begins en media res and ends much the
same way.The performances and writing in the film are seemless and natural
in their execution. Many may be turned off by the super natural delivery
as
it opposes any sort of dramatic tension. These young actors inhabit their
characters completely without a false note struck. The body language and
coded language of teenage life is dead on. Granted not everyone in 76 or
now
uses drugs and drinks to the extent idealized in the movie (it is
interesting that we don't see anyone puking or wrecking their muscle cars-
again that would be moralizing, exploitive , you name it), but yet the
costumes and behavior are dead on. I especially love the dorky tight
shorts
and pulled up socks of the super macho football coaches.Linkletter
captures perfectly the fears, hopes and overall attitudes of teen life
better than John Hughes ever could have hoped to. With the exception of
Cameron Crowe's superb Say Anything, this is the greatest teen film ever
made. A 9 out of 10.
