2006_October 10 
I am wondering about all the other reviews that say this is exactly
like real life in the 70&#39;s. I found this movie to be very unlike real
life in 1976, to a severe extent. I graduated high school in 1973 so it
should be almost exactly my time but there are many things wrong here.
The movie has stoners wearing polyester print shirts which were
actually the costumes of the disco set. In real life they would all be
wearing blue denim jackets with DISCO SU**S buttons on them, and never
disco clothes themselves. The movie has them smoking bongs in a
convertible in plain view of cops, something never done in the 70&#39;s
when people still went to jail for 2 joints and always smoked dope
where the cops couldn&#39;t see us. It shows stoners always getting into
fights. Not like real life, only greasers and jocks got into fights,
stoners were too stoned to fight at all. They never talk about music in
this movie, the most you hear about music in this movie is the one guy
who talks about getting Aerosmith tickets, but in real life, all us
stoners talked about was music. That was like 80% of our conversation.
Jethro Tull, Deep Purple, Captain Beyond. I think most of the people in
this movie were the lower intelligence set, the smart stoners didn&#39;t
knock over garbage cans or go around paddling people in the posterior
with wood paddles. It never happened. In real life, the football
players were dumb jocks with short hair, big muscles, dated the dumb
straight cheerleaders who made money at the bake sale to buy uniforms.
Jocks were straight and never smoked dope or even cigarettes. They were
scared of the stoners because they didn&#39;t have any idea what we were
doing. Once in a while a stoner got on the football team but never fit
in with the jocks, and when the stoners found out he was on the team we
thought he was maybe a jock-hippie which was a rare thing. But this
movie has skinny little hippies playing football!! Never happened,
ever. And it shows hippies with late-60&#39;s Camaros with 454 engines in
them and Dodge Chargers with a 440 and a 6-pack. Bzzzzzt!! Those were
the greasers! Hippies drove beat up Volkswagens and Chevy Novas with 6
cylinders. This movie is not realistic at all. I think this movie is
ABOUT the 70&#39;s but it lampoons them, and it seems the people who made
the movie were not really there.
