1999_November 20 

Richard Linklater's name was put on the map with the comedic indie fave
SLACKER (1991), a vignette-filled day in the life of an intertwined series
of (mostly) twenty-something free spirits in the college town of Austin,
Texas. Along with Nirvana's landmark record &quot;Nevermind&quot; and Douglas
Coupland's novel &quot;Generation X,&quot; Linklater provided in this film another
reference point for delineating a cultural/generational shift from
baby-boomer conventions to those of a more cynical and/or irony-oriented
Gen-Xer generation, a generation which grew up after the 1960s cultural
shifts were in place and to be simply taken for granted.<br /><br />DAZED AND CONFUSED, a fine later effort by the same director, looks back,
fondly and nostalgiacly, toward the seemingly more care free days of the
mid
1970s, a time in which the late 60s ethos of freeing your mind through
sex,
drugs, rock, and non stop rebellion had filtered out beyond the
counter-culture zones and down to younger aged rebels. Linklater focuses
on
a group of high school partyers on the last day of the 75/76 school year.
The mood is carefree and upbeat, in spite of some hazing and bullying of
the
incoming freshmen by the seniors. Plans for a big blowout get made.
Eventually, all of the kids - cool and uncool - get together in one big
beer
and pot filled gathering. In the course of events, we get to know the
mostly
likeable charecters and feel as though we are hanging out with
them.<br /><br />Linklater and cast do a remarkable job of capturing the details and
nuances
of a now gone era, and of conveying the joyous moments of being young and
having a great time simply hanging out with other kids. They show kids
having fun not doing what they are told by the adults. They present the
rituals of potsmoking in an honest way, i.e, as a relatively benign
recreational (rather than as a gateway) drug, the use of which was, and
is,
widespread among American adolescents. Having grown up in the same era
(graduating from grammar school in 75 and high school in 79), this movie
made me feel very nostalgiac about the era it depicts. It made me want to
go
dig out &quot;Toys in the Attic&quot; and my other 70s hard rock LPs from out of the
storage and give them a spin.   
