2007_December 5 
Focus is an independent production company which dwells on the
non-conventional &quot;Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind&quot; is, to say the
least, a non-conventional film!! This movie, which is a purveyor of
many Molotov Mardi Gras emotions, authenticates an equivocal potpourri
of ideas that are indicative of numerous independent production company
films!! This movie also bears a striking similarity to Elia Kazan&#39;s
intensity to itemize belligerent confrontation!! &quot;Eternal Sunshine of
the Spotless Mind&quot; is sort of a counter culture version of the film
&quot;The Arrangement&quot;. Many films that are run of the mill mainstream
Hollywood movies immediately hack out a succinct and concise mindset of
everyone of the major character&#39;s feelings. In &quot;Eternal Sunshine of the
Spotless Mind&quot; to say that Joel&#39;s (Jim Carey) feelings were
introverted, would be a paramount utterance of understatement!! Joel&#39;s
relationship with Clementine,( a name we associate with a folklore
about loving regrets, also, with a particular type of orange) evokes a
vivid presentation which signifies an emotional diligence. The
illogical transition to their pursuing ideas and trepidations compound
an inexplicably and unnecessary intransigence for both of them!! The
ephemeral activities in this film perpetuate a cerebral anguish which
becomes the heinous culprit to Joel and Clementine&#39;s difficulty to
adequately dissect their conceptions about one another!! I could see
this film 100 times and still not capture every intricate detail to
it!! Set in a New York City neighborhood, it depicts a realism about
imperfection being ubiquitous in all of the character&#39;s lives!! This
movie had a foreign flare to it as well!! In fact, I initially thought
this film took place in Montreal... After viewing a couple of scenes,
I, of course, blew that contention out the window!! My first clue was
when I saw the New York License plates on every single one of the
cars!! Jim Carey is FABULOUS!! in this movie!! Originally known as the
box office star of copious high profit zany comedies, his enormous
popularity garnered an auspicious association with the light hearted!!
In &quot;Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind&quot;, his role was very serious
and complex!! Think about it though, if someone were to handwrite a
silly comedy, and then, all of a sudden, he was required to change this
screenplay to a serious drama, it would be a case of simply needing to
borrow someone&#39;s erasure for no more than 18 seconds!! Kate Winslet is
superb in this film as well!! I did not even know she was British!!
When the acting in a movie is so excellent, it almost appears as though
the writers and directors of the film are getting paid only about a
buck above minimum wage!! &quot;Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind&quot; is a
remarkable movie, and is considered to be one of the best films ever
made according to this website!! The step by step thought process to
this film puts this movie in a category all by itself!! Marvelous
flick!! Focus Productions always gives way to the unorthodox, perhaps
you as a movie viewer should try doing the very same thing once in
awhile too!! FIVE STARS!!!! ABSOLUTELY!!
