2011_December 28 
Eternal Sunshine draws confusion from me when I first saw it.
Relationship per se is complicated and much more complicated because of
two unique individuals involve. For me, Sunshine means happiness with
the word eternal make it long lasting, from this, I conclude that
having empty slate will makes us happy which contradicts the human
nature. Memories, good or bad, can be perceived both as inspiration and
learning ground, why do we want to eradicate someone in our life that
easy? Isn&#x27;t that completely dumb? --- Wasting years of learning and
appreciating what you had. For the past 20 years of my life, people
just come or go, some stayed for a while and some stayed for the
longest but each one of them left a mark even not in my heart (which
they correlate with love, but I guess it&#x27;s a clich&#xE9; too) but in my
hippocampus even short term or long term they will always stay under my
subconscious. Spotless mind is really being clueless, its subjecting
yourself to undergo suppression of the human mind by unconscious
forgetting, its controlling the nature of the human. Its not bad that
sometimes we wanted to break-free by forgetting the world and be
forgotten by world, that makes us entirely human. Let happiness
outweigh the bad in the relationship; don&#x27;t let the relationship breaks
in front of you. Let experiences be worth reminiscing for both of you,
lingers in every single neuron in your brain. Fights, arguments,
pressures, distance, indifferences are part of every single
relationship so don&#x27;t ever think that because you are having troubles
every time its not worth fighting for, that sometimes we think that
Mr./Ms. Right is out there, we could never find that person unless we
learn how to build a solid foundation of memories and experience from
both to build the right relationship. Love is not about instinct, it
couldn&#x27;t be learned nor taught, love could never be defined by people
that are not involve, and what they saw --- until the end of the day
those people wont be experiencing the same thing you&#x27;ll have and they
will never regret the things that you will lose. It takes two to keep
the ball rolling, its not a basketball game that we could pass every
problems we couldn&#x27;t handle. People will just you as superficial so
never take their advice, because you don&#x27;t want to suffer because of
their senseless senses remember even there is the word &#x22;empathy&#x22; they
could not have your shoe when things turn to crap. Just live life and
let life flows.
