2011_September 22 
Midnight in Paris is about an engaged couple named Gil and Inez who go
to Paris, France because her father is setting up a business deal
there. Gil and Inez, we soon learn are very different people. He is a
struggling author who loves the sights and sounds of Paris and finds it
all very romantic and beautiful. His idea of a great time there would
be to walk down the streets in the rain and capture the romance and
beauty of the moment. Inez is more of a materialistic person who would
much rather get a ride than walk in the rain and doesn&#x27;t much care for
Gil&#x27;s opinions about art, or the different surroundings in Paris. One
night while walking alone in the city, Gil is invited into an old
vehicle and because he is drunk he accepts, and is then taken back to
Paris in the 1920&#x27;s where he gets to meet some of his favourite
authors, artists and other very influential people in the field of art
in the 1920&#x27;s. He gets to be friends with them and for the evening gets
to be with them in the 20&#x27;s, but when he wakes up, he is back in 2010
with Inez. Gil goes back to the same spot every night and is taken back
to his artist friends and soon meets a French woman who he starts to
fall in love with, but how will he be able to stay in the 1920&#x27;s
permanently and what will he do about Inez? I absolutely loved Midnight
in Paris. I have never actually been to Paris, or any parts in France,
but have seen a lot of French films and pieces of art to know that it
is a classy and beautiful city and this film captures that beauty and
magic. It is a gorgeous looking film with it&#x27;s cinematography as well
as the sets and costumes. The film has tons of great one liners and
made me smile frequently throughout the film. The whole cast is great
and all do an excellent job here. The idea behind the movie is really
intriguing and it makes for some very entertaining viewing and it sure
made me feel good after I saw it. This is a film that is so light and
funny and absolutely charming that I found it hard not to love every
minute about it. The dialogue is great, the story is funny, romantic,
fascinating and entertaining and it is definitely beautiful to look at
as well. This film captures a lot of what is classic and sentimental
from classic films by giving us a very original idea and humour and
giving it class, innocence and beauty. I think fans of classic films
will love this movie as well as anyone who enjoys good movies and
comedies that are smart and do not rely on raunch, or bad language.
Midnight in Paris really brightened up my evening and a certain joy
came out of watching this film. I highly recommend it and I hope it is
a hit at next year&#x27;s Oscars because I think it is one of this year&#x27;s
best films and a true masterpiece.
