2012_February 14 
This is an amusing tale about a time traveller in 1920s Paris, wrapped
up in an irritating framing device about a group of obnoxious
modern-day Americans staying in the city. Allen is fond of magical
plots and, as in The Purple Rose of Cairo, his most successful venture
in this genre, he does not waste time on explaining how the magic
works. His protagonist, Gil, just has to sit on some steps in Monmartre
when the clock strikes midnight and he is transported back to his
golden age. The audience has an amusing time recognising the famous
denizens of 1920s Monmartre before they identify themselves and there
are a few good jokes. The one I liked best is Gil suggesting the plot
of The Exterminating Angel to a bemused Louis Bunuel. Interestingly,
Allen also referenced the Bunuel film in The Purple Rose of Cairo where
the on-screen characters sit around in evening dress, unable to leave.
The stand-out cameos in this section of the film are Adrian Brody as a
rhinoceros-obsessed Salvador Dal&#xED; and Kathy Bates as an unfeasibly
accommodating Gertrude Stein. But I did miss Henry Miller and Ana&#xEF;s
Nin.<br /><br />In the framing device Gil is staying in Paris with his airhead fianc&#xE9;e,
her Tea Party Republican parents and two pretentious friends. This part
of the film could usefully have been left on the cutting-room floor.
Even more irritating is that it is shot in the style of a travelogue,
rather like Vicky Cristina Barcelona. We see interminable shots of
Parisian tourist attractions accompanied by mind-numbing, imitation
Django Reinhardt music. I have to declare an interest here: I used to
work in Paris and I am immune to its so-called charms. One of the
characters says: &#x22;That Paris exists and anyone could choose to live
anywhere else in the world will always be a mystery to me&#x22;. One of the
most irritating things that I found about Paris was that most of my
Parisian colleagues would have agreed with that sentiment.<br /><br />It is amazing how even the most brilliant actors, when playing the lead
in Allen&#x27;s films, adopt his mannerisms, vocal tics and persona. Owen
Wood is Gil and is by no means a brilliant actor but he produces the
most accurate imitation of Woody Allen that I have yet seen on the
screen. And I don&#x27;t mean that in a nice way. Marion Cotillard is
Adriana, his love interest from the 1920s. Her Golden Age is the Belle
Epoque but when they go back there and meet Toulouse-Lautrec, Gauguin
and Degas they are told that, no, the Golden Age is the Renaissance.
Allen is making a small, but valid point here: that everyone hankers
after an earlier period when everything was wonderful but, for the vast
majority of people, now is the best of possible times. Eventually Gil
comes to accept this, not least because he cannot envisage a world
without painkillers and antibiotics. I tend to agree: in the 1920&#x27;s I
would not have been able to beam down this film from a satellite and
watch it in the comfort of my own home.
