2012_March 30 
Midnight in Paris is a subtle romantic drama with a comical touch that
has a little bit of almost everything: be it magic-realism, romance,
phantasm, voyeur, surrealism or even noir. It wouldn&#x27;t be a hyperbole
to proclaim that everything that Woody Allen learned and gained during
his long stint in Cinema culminated in form of Midnight in Paris &#x96; An
ode to the City of Love, and its most celebrated denizens of the past.
Driven by the very impetus that gives Cinema its resonant charm, Woody
Allen the auteur has seen his art go from strength to strength, taking
new shapes and forms, being completely oblivious of the existence of
his larger than life alter ego, Woody Allen the showman, whose
stimulating works have been a treat for us all for last so many
decades, and who himself has been a force to reckon with, right
throughout his long and illustrious career that still seems to be in
its prime.<br /><br />I have grown up watching works of legendary Dev Anand, whose iconic
movie career spanned well over six decades. Being an Indian, I guess it
comes naturally to one! The first that I heard of Woody Allen was when
someone eloquently referred to Dev Sahab as the Indian Woody Allen. It
indeed seemed revolting! A showman, whom not only you but also your
grandparents have grown up watching being compared to some run-of-the-
mill movie maker form the Occident. But, it did succeed in getting me
hooked. Today, I find the comparison to be much more apt. Dev Sahab was
oblivious to the changing trends in the India Cinema, and remained
royal to his idiosyncratic style. The same can be said about Mr. Allen,
who became the champion of a resurgent parallel stream in American
Cinema&#x97; inspired by the avant garde works of European auteurs like
Federico Fellini and Ingmar Bergman&#x97;while others kept busy figuring out
their new roles in rapidly changing American movie circles. <br /><br />Marion Cotillard and Owen Wilson in Midnight in Paris Vintage Woody
Allen, watching Midnight in Paris is like savoring the great city of
Paris from the eyes of Mr. Allen himself. Midnight in Paris made an
emphatic debut at the 2011 Cannes Festival, and succeeded in leaving a
lasting impact on most of those present at the screening. During a
press conference at Cannes, Woody Allen had said that he wanted to show
the city of Paris emotionally, and wanted it to be the way he himself
sees it, and he indeed succeeds in fulfilling his dream by bringing the
city to life, thanks to his perspicacious eye.<br /><br />Midnight in Paris presents a chapter in the life of a successful but
disillusioned Hollywood screenwriter, Gil Pender (Owen Wilson), who
yearns to break the shackles of monotony by writing a fiction novel,
but is perplexed by his slender prospects as a writer beyond the
glamour and razzmatazz of the sequestered world of Hollywood, while he
is out on a vacation to the breeding ground of creativity and talent,
Paris, and accompanying him are his ravishing fianc&#xE9;e, Inez (Rachel
McAdams), and his affluent future in-laws. The perfunctory relationship
that Gil shares with his fianc&#xE9;e seems to be a result of Inez&#x27;
perpetually disinterested outlook towards Gil&#x27;s ambition of graduating
into a full- fledged writer by making a foray into fiction writing. The
beauty of Midnight in Paris is that it poses several questions, and
while many of them may be answered in the due course of the movie, the
true onus truly lies with the viewer to fathom the reality based on his
own understanding. One major question that would continuously perplex
the viewer is whether it is the yearning for creativity or the want for
true love or the search for something even more profound that&#x27;s
haunting Gil? <br /><br />Midnight in Paris has loads to offer even to the average viewer,
especially to ones who are willing to delve deep into realm of the
unknown to savor the real delight that awaits them. The dreamlike
sequences that depict Gil interacting with the likes of Ernest
Hemingway, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Salvador Dali, Luis Bunuel, and Pablo
Picasso are an absolute treat to watch. While I greatly admire
Hemingway and Fitzgerald for their indelible contribution to English
Literature, I just absolutely idolize Luis Bunuel not only as a
Surrealist, but also as a movie maker par excellence. Who can dare to
overlook Bunuel&#x27;s decorated oeuvre right from his maiden venture, An
Andalusian Dog (1929), which he collaborated with another pioneer
Surrealist, Salvador Dali to his surrealistic magnum opuses, The
Exterminating Angel (1962), to which Mr. Allen pays a tribute in the
movie, and The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie (1972), which won the
Best Foreign Picture Oscar for the year?<br /><br />Woody Allen&#x27;s inspired direction and inciteful screenplay are well
complemented by a very fine ensemble of support cast that includes the
likes of Kathy Bates and Adrien Brody. The music and cinematography are
awe-inspiring to say the least. Owen Wilson and Rachel McAdams
perfectly fit in their respective caricatures, and the charming
presence of Marion Cotillard adds a whole new spark to the movie.
Midnight in Paris has already managed to bag a handful of accolades,
and the Oscar nomination is indeed an icing on the cake. Midnight in
Paris crosses genres, and presents Cinema at its most colorful, while
also serving to be a delightful cinematic experience that has something
for almost everyone. 9/10
